Performance Test 






Test 1
How do we decide what increment sequence to use? In general, this question is a difficult
one to answer. The performance of the algorithm depends not just on the number
of increments, but also on arithmetical interactions among the increments such as
the size of their common divisors
and other properties. Many
different increment sequences
have been studied in the literature,
but no provably best
sequence has been found. The
increment sequence that is used
in Algorithm 2.3 is easy to
compute and use, and performs
nearly as well as more sophisticated
increment sequences that
have been discovered that have
provably better worst-case performance.
Increment sequences
that are substantially better still
may be waiting to be discovered.
Shellsort is useful even for
large arrays, particularly by
contrast with selection sort and
insertion sort. It also performs
well on arrays that are in arbitrary
order (not necessarily random).
Indeed, constructing an
array for which shellsort runs
slowly for a particular increment
sequence is usually a challenging
exercise.
As you can learn with
SortCompare, shellsort is much
faster than insertion sort and
selection sort, and its speed advantage
increases with the array
size. Before reading further, try using SortCompare to compare shellsort with insertion sort and selection sort for array sizes that are increasing powers of 2
roblems that could not be addressed with the more elementary algorithms. This example
is our first practical illustration of an important principle that pervades this
book: achieving speedups that enable the solution of problems that could not otherwise be
solved is one of the prime reasons to study algorithm performance and design.
The study of the performance characteristics of shellsort requires mathematical arguments
that are beyond the scope of this book. If you want to be convinced, start
by thinking about how you would prove the following fact: when an h-sorted array is
k-sorted, it remains h-sorted. As for the performance of Algorithm 2.3, the most important
result in the present context is the knowledge that the running time of shellsort
is not necessarily quadratic—for example, it is known that the worst-case number of
compares for Algorithm 2.3 is proportional to N 3/2. That such a simple modification
2.1 ■ Elementary Sorts 261
can break the quadratic-running-time barrier is quite interesting, as doing so is a prime
goal for many algorithm design problems.
No mathematical results are available about the average-case number of compares
for shellsort for randomly ordered input. Increment sequences have been devised that
drive the asymptotic growth of the worst-case number of compares down to N 4/3, N 5/4,
N 6/5, . . . , but many of these results are primarily of academic interest because these
functions are hard to distinguish from one another (and from a constant factor of N )
for practical values of N.
In practice, you can safely take advantage of the past scientific study of shellsort just
by using the increment sequence in Algorithm 2.3 (or one of the increment sequences
in the exercises at the end of this section, which may improve performance by 20 to 40
percent). Moreover, you can easily validate the following hypothesis:
Property E. The number of compares used by shellsort with the increments 1, 4, can break the quadratic-running-time barrier is quite interesting, as doing so is a prime
goal for many algorithm design problems.
No mathematical results are available about the average-case number of compares
for shellsort for randomly ordered input. Increment sequences have been devised that
drive the asymptotic growth of the worst-case number of compares down to N 4/3, N 5/4,
N 6/5, . . . , but many of these results are primarily of academic interest because these
functions are hard to distinguish from one another (and from a constant factor of N )
for practical values of N.
In practice, you can safely take advantage of the past scientific study of shellsort just
by using the increment sequence in Algorithm 2.3 (or one of the increment sequences
in the exercises at the end of this section, which may improve performance by 20 to 40
percent). Moreover, you can easily validate the following hypothesis:
Property E. The number of compares used by shellsort with the increments 1, 4,
13, 40, 121, 364, . . . is bounded by a small multiple of N times the number of increments
used.
Evidence: Instrumenting Algorithm 2.3 to count compares and divide by the
number of increments used is a straightforward exercise (see Exercise 2.1.12). Extensive
experiments suggest that the average number of compares per increment
might be N 1/5, but it is quite difficult to discern the growth in that function unless
N is huge. This property also seems to be rather insensitive to the input model.
Experienced programmers sometimes choose shellsort because it has acceptable
running time even for moderately large arrays; it requires a small amount of code; and
it uses no extra space. In the next few sections, we shall see methods that are more efficient,
but they are perhaps only twice as fast (if that much) except for very large N, and
they are more complicated. If you need a solution to a sorting problem, and are working
in a situation where a system sort may not be available (for example, code destined
for hardware or an embedded system), you can safely use shellsort, then determine
sometime later whether it will be worthwhile to replace it with a more sophisticated
method. Perhaps, but many of those interesting things are made possible by fast sorting algorithms.
You will find many examples in Section 2.5 and throughout the rest of the
book. Sorting is worth studying now because the problem is easy to understand, and
you can appreciate the ingenuity behind the faster algorithms. Abstract in-place merge The straightforward approach to implementing merging
is to design a method that merges two disjoint ordered arrays of Comparable objects
into a third array. This strategy is easy to implement: create an output array of the
requisite size and then choose successively the smallest remaining item from the two
input arrays to be the next item added to the output array.
However, when we mergesort a large array, we are doing a huge number of merges,
so the cost of creating a new array to hold the output every time that we do a merge is
problematic. It would be much more desirable to have an in-place method so that we
could sort the first half of the array in place, then sort the second half of the array in
place, then do the merge of the two halves by moving the items around within the array,
without using a significant amount of other extra space. It is worthwhile to pause
momentarily to consider how you might do that. At first blush, this problem seems to
be one that must be simple to solve, but solutions that are known are quite complicated,
especially by comparison to alternatives that use extra space.
Still, the abstraction of an in-place merge is useful. Accordingly, we use the method
signature merge(a, lo, mid, hi) to specify a merge method that puts the result of
merging the subarrays a[lo..mid] with a[mid+1..hi] into a single ordered array,
leaving the result in a[lo..hi]. The code on the next page implements this merge
method in just a few lines by copying everything to an auxiliary array and then merging
back to the original. Another approach is described in Exercise 2.2.10. Top-down mergesort Algorithm 2.4 is a recursive
mergesort implementation based on this abstract inplace
merge. It is one of the best-known examples of the
utility of the divide-and-conquer paradigm for efficient
algorithm design. This recursive code is the basis for an
inductive proof that the algorithm sorts the array: if it
sorts the two subarrays, it sorts the whole array, by merging
together the subarrays.
To understand mergesort, it is worthwhile to consider
carefully the dynamics of the method calls, shown in the
trace at right. To sort a[0..15], the sort() method calls
itself to sort a[0..7] then calls itself to sort a[0..3]
and a[0..1] before finally doing the first merge of a[0]
with a[1] after calling itself to sort a[0] and then a[1]
(for brevity, we omit the calls for the base-case 1-entry
sorts in the trace). Then the next merge is a[2] with a[3]
and then a[0..1] with a[2..3] and so forth. From this
trace, we see that the sort code simply provides an organized
way to sequence the calls to the merge() method.
This insight will be useful later in this section.
The recursive code also provides us with the basis for
analyzing mergesort’s running time. Because mergesort
is a prototype of the divide-and-conquer algorithm design
paradigm, we will consider this analysis in detail. PropositionS F and G tell us that we can expect the time required by mergesort to be
proportional to N log N. That fact brings us to a different level from the elementary
methods in Section 2.1 because it tells us that we can sort huge arrays using just a
logarithmic factor more time than it takes to examine every entry. You can sort millions
of items (or more) with mergesort, but not with insertion sort or selection sort. The
primary drawback of mergesort is that it requires extra space proportional to N, for
the auxiliary array for merging. If space is at a premium, we need to consider another
method. On the other hand, we can cut the running time of mergesort substantially
with some carefully considered modifications to the implementation.
Use insertion sort for small subarrays. We can improve most recursive algorithms by
handling small cases differently, because the recursion guarantees that the method will
be used often for small cases, so improvements in handling them lead to improvements
in the whole algorithm. In the case of sorting, we know that insertion sort (or selection
sort) is simple and therefore likely to be faster than mergesort for tiny subarrays. As
usual, a visual trace provides insight into the operation of mergesort. The visual trace
on the facing page shows the operation of a mergesort implementation with a cutoff
for small subarrays. Switching to insertion sort for small subarrays (length 15 or less,
say) will improve the running time of a typical mergesort implementation by 10 to 15
percent (see Exercise 2.2.23).
Test whether the array is already in order. We can reduce the running time to be
linear for arrays that are already in order by adding a test to skip the call to merge() if
a[mid] is less than or equal to a[mid+1]. With this change, we still do all the recursive
calls, but the running time for any sorted subarray is linear (see Exercise 2.2.8).
Eliminate the copy to the auxiliary array. It is possible to eliminate the time (but not
the space) taken to copy to the auxiliary array used for merging. To do so, we use two
invocations of the sort method: one takes its input from the given array and puts the
sorted output in the auxiliary array; the other takes its input from the auxiliary array
and puts the sorted output in the given array. With this approach, in a bit of recursive
trickery, we can arrange the recursive calls such that the computation switches the roles
of the input array and the auxiliary array at each level (see Exercise 2.2.11). It is appropriate to repeat here a point raised in Chapter 1 that is easily forgotten and
needs reemphasis. Locally, we treat each algorithm in this book as if it were critical in
some application. Globally, we try to reach general conclusions about which approach
to recommend. Our discussion of such improvements is not necessarily a recommendation
to always implement them, rather a warning not to draw absolute conclusions
about performance from initial implementations. When addressing a new problem,
your best bet is to use the simplest implementation with which you are comfortable It is appropriate to repeat here a point raised in Chapter 1 that is easily forgotten and
needs reemphasis. Locally, we treat each algorithm in this book as if it were critical in
some application. Globally, we try to reach general conclusions about which approach
to recommend. Our discussion of such improvements is not necessarily a recommendation
to always implement them, rather a warning not to draw absolute conclusions
about performance from initial implementations. When addressing a new problem,
your best bet is to use the simplest implementation with which you are comfortable
and then refine it if it becomes a bottleneck. Addressing improvements that decrease
running time just by a constant factor may not otherwise be worthwhile. You need to
test the effectiveness of specific improvements by running experiments, as we indicate
in exercises throughout.
In the case of mergesort, the three improvements just listed are simple to implement
and are of interest when mergesort is the method of choice—for example, in situations
discussed at the end of this chapter.
Bottom-up mergesort The recursive implementation of mergesort is prototypical
of the divide-and-conquer algorithm design paradigm, where we solve a large problem
by dividing it into pieces, solving the subproblems, then using the solutions for the
pieces to solve the whole problem. Even though we are thinking in terms of merging
together two large subarrays, the fact is that most merges are merging together tiny
subarrays. Another way to implement mergesort is to organize the merges so that we do
all the merges of tiny subarrays on one pass, then do a second pass to merge those subarrays
in pairs, and so forth, continuing until we
do a merge that encompasses the whole array. This
method requires even less code than the standard
recursive implementation. We start by doing a pass
of 1-by-1 merges (considering individual items as
subarrays of size 1), then a pass of 2-by-2 merges
(merge subarrays of size 2 to make subarrays of
size 4), then 4-by-4 merges, and so forth. The second
subarray may be smaller than the first in the
last merge on each pass (which is no problem for
merge()), but otherwise all merges involve subarrays
of equal size, doubling the sorted subarray size
for the next pass. When the array length is a power of 2, top-down and bottom-up mergesort perform
precisely the same compares and array accesses, just in a different order. When the
array length is not a power of 2, the sequence of compares and array accesses for the two
algorithms will be different (see Exercise 2.2.5).
A version of bottom-up mergesort is the method of choice for sorting data organized
in a linked list. Consider the list to be sorted sublists of size 1, then pass through to
make sorted subarrays of size 2 linked together, then size 4, and so forth. This method
rearranges the links to sort the list in place (without creating any new list nodes).
Both the top-down and bottom-up approaches to implementing a divide-andconquer
algorithm are intuitive. The lesson that you can take from mergesort is this:
Whenever you encounter an algorithm based on one of these approaches, it is worth
considering the other. Do you want to solve the problem by breaking it up into smaller
problems (and solving them recursively) as in Merge.sort() or by building small solutions
into larger ones as in MergeBU.sort()?
The complexity of sorting One important reason to know about mergesort is
that we use it as the basis for proving a fundamental result in the field of computational
complexity that helps us understand the intrinsic difficulty of sorting. In general, computational
complexity plays an important role in the design of algorithms, and this
result in particular is directly relevant to the design of sorting algorithms, so we next
consider it in detail.
The first step in a study of complexity is to establish a model of computation. Generally,
researchers strive to understand the simplest model relevant to a problem. For
sorting, we study the class of compare-based algorithms that make their decisions about
items only on the basis of comparing keys. A compare-based algorithm can do an arbitrary
amount of computation between compares, but cannot get any information
about a key except by comparing it with another one. Because of our restriction to the
Comparable API, all of the algorithms in this chapter are in this class (note that we are
ignoring the cost of array accesses), as are many algorithms that we might imagine. In
Chapter 5, we consider algorithms that are not restricted to Comparable items. Note that H = lg N when the keys are all distinct (all the probabilities are 1/N), which
is consistent with Proposition I in Section 2.2 and Proposition K. The worst case
for 3-way partitioning happens when the keys are distinct; when duplicate keys are
present, it can do much better than mergesort. More important, these two properties
together imply that quicksort with 3-way partitioning is entropy-optimal, in the sense
that the average number of compares used by the best possible compare-based sorting
algorithm and the average number of compares used by 3-way quicksort are within a
constant factor of one another, for any given distribution of input key values.
As with standard quicksort, the running time tends to the average as the array size
grows, and large deviations from the average are extremely unlikely, so that you can
depend on 3-way quicksort’s running time to be proportional to N times the entropy
of the distribution of input key values. This property of the algorithm is important in
practice because it reduces the time of the sort from linearithmic to linear for arrays with
large numbers of duplicate keys. The order of the keys is immaterial, because the algorithm
shuffles them to protect against the worst case. The distribution of keys defines
the entropy and no compare-based algorithm can use fewer compares than defined by
the entropy. This ability to adapt to duplicates in the input makes 3-way quicksort the
algorithm of choice for a library sort—clients that sort arrays containing large numbers
of duplicate keys are not unusual.
A carefully tuned version of quicksort is likely to run significantly faster on most
computers for most applications than will any other compare-based sorting method.
Quicksort is widely used throughout today’s computational infrastructure because
the mathematical models that we have discussed suggest that it will outperform other
methods in practical applications, and extensive experiments and experience over the
past several decades have validated that conclusion.
We will see in Chapter 5 that this is not quite the end of the story in the development
of sorting algorithms, because is it possible to develop algorithms that do not use
compares at all! But a version of quicksort turns out to be best in that situation, as well. Many applications require that we process items having keys in order, but not necessarily
in full sorted order and not necessarily all at once. Often, we collect a set of
items, then process the one with the largest key, then perhaps collect more items, then
process the one with the current largest key, and so forth. For example, you are likely to
have a computer (or a cellphone) that is capable of running several applications at the
same time. This effect is typically achieved by assigning a priority to events associated
with applications, then always choosing to process next the highest-priority event. For
example, most cellphones are likely to process an incoming call with higher priority
than a game application.
An appropriate data type in such an environment supports two operations: remove
the maximum and insert. Such a data type is called a priority queue. Using priority
queues is similar to using queues (remove the oldest) and stacks (remove the newest),
but implementing them efficiently is more challenging.
In this section, after a short discussion of elementary representations where one or
both of the operations take linear time, we consider a classic priority-queue implementation
based on the binary heap data structure, where items are kept in an array, subject
to certain ordering constraints that allow for efficient (logarithmic-time) implementations
of remove the maximum and insert.
Some important applications of priority queues include simulation systems, where
the keys correspond to event times, to be processed in chronological order; job scheduling,
where the keys correspond to priorities indicating which tasks are to be performed
first; and numerical computations, where the keys represent computational errors, indicating
in which order we should deal with them. We consider in Chapter 6 a detailed
case study showing the use of priority queues in a particle-collision simulation.
We can use any priority queue as the basis for a sorting algorithm by inserting a sequence
of items, then successively removing the smallest to get them out, in order. An
important sorting algorithm known as heapsort also follows naturally from our heapbased
priority-queue implementations. Later on in this book, we shall see how to use
priority queues as building blocks for other algorithms. In Chapter 4, we shall see how
priority queues are an appropriate abstraction for implementing several fundamental
graph-searching algorithms; in Chapter 5, we shall develop a data-compression algorithm
using methods from this section. These are but a few examples of the important
role played by the priority queue as a tool in algorithm design. API The priority queue is a prototypical abstract data type (see Section 1.2): it represents
a set of values and operations on those values, and it provides a convenient abstraction
that allows us to separate application programs (clients) from various implementations
that we will consider in this section. As in Section 1.2, we precisely define
the operations by specifying an applications programming interface (API) that provides
the information needed by clients. Priority queues are characterized by the remove the
maximum and insert operations, so we shall focus on them. We use the method names
delMax() for remove the maximum and insert() for insert. By convention, we will
compare keys only with a helper less() method, as we have been doing for sorting.
Thus, if items can have duplicate keys, maximum means any item with the largest key
value. To complete the API, we also need to add constructors (like the ones we used for
stacks and queues) and a test if empty operation. For flexibility, we use a generic implementation
with a parameterized type Key that implements the Comparable interface.
This choice eliminates our distinction between items and keys and enables clearer and
more compact descriptions of data structures and algorithms. For example, we refer to
the “largest key” instead of the “largest item” or the “item with the largest key.”
For convenience in client code, the API includes three constructors, which enable
clients to build priority queues of an initial fixed size (perhaps initialized with a given
array of keys). To clarify client code, we will use a separate class MinPQ whenever appropriate,
which is the same as MaxPQ except that it has a delMin() method that deletes
and returns an item with the smallest key in the queue. Any MaxPQ implementation is
easily converted into a MinPQ implementation and vice versa, simply by reversing the
sense of the comparison in less(). A priority-queue client. To appreciate the
value of the priority-queue abstraction, consider
the following problem: You have a huge
input stream of N strings and associated integer
values, and your task is to find the largest
or smallest M integers (and associated strings)
in the input stream. You might imagine the
stream to be financial transactions, where
your interest is to find the big ones, or pesticide
levels in an agricultural product, where
your interest is to find the small ones, or requests
for service, or results from a scientific
experiment, or whatever. In some applications, the size of the input stream is so huge
that it is best to consider it to be unbounded. One way to address this problem would
be to sort the input stream and take the M largest keys from the result, but we haveArray representation (ordered). Another approach is to add code for insert to move
larger entries one position to the right, thus keeping the keys in the array in order (as in
insertion sort). Thus, the largest element is always at the end, and the code for remove
the maximum in the priority queue is the same as for pop in the stack.
Linked-list representations. Similarly, we can start with our linked-list code for pushdown
stacks, modifying either the code for pop() to find and return the maximum or
the code for push() to keep keys in reverse order and the code for pop() to unlink and
return the first (maximum) item on the list.
Using unordered sequences is the prototypical lazy
approach to this problem, where we defer doing
work until necessary (to find the maximum); using
ordered sequences is the prototypical eager approach
to the problem, where we do as much work
as we can up front (keep the list sorted on insertion)
to make later operations efficient.
The significant difference between implementing
stacks or queues and implementing priority queues
has to do with performance. For stacks and queues,
we were able to develop implementations of all the
operations that take constant time; for priority queues, all of the elementary implementations
just discussed have the property that either the insert or the remove the
maximum operation takes linear time in the worst case. The heap data structure that we
consider next enables implementations where both operations are guaranteed to be fast. Heap definitions The binary heap is a data structure that can efficiently support
the basic priority-queue operations. In a binary heap, the keys are stored in an array
such that each key is guaranteed to be larger than (or equal to) the keys at two other
specific positions. In turn, each of those keys must be larger than (or equal to) two additional
keys, and so forth. This ordering is easy to see if we view the keys as being in
a binary tree structure with edges from each key to the two keys known to be smaller.
Definition. A binary tree is heap-ordered if the key in each node is larger than or
equal to the keys in that node’s two children (if any).
Equivalently, the key in each node of a heap-ordered binary tree is smaller than or
equal to the key in that node’s parent (if any). Moving up from any node, we get a
nondecreasing sequence of keys; moving down from any node, we get a nonincreasing
sequence of keys. In particular:
Proposition O. The largest key in a heap-ordered binary tree is found at the root.
Proof: By induction on the size of the tree.
Binary heap representation. If we use a linked representation for heap-ordered binary
trees, we would need to have three links associated with each key to allow travel up and
down the tree (each node would have one pointer to its parent and one to each child).
It is particularly convenient, instead, to use a complete binary tree like the one drawn at
right. We draw such a structure by placing the root node
and then proceeding down the page and from left to right,
drawing and connecting two nodes beneath each node on
the previous level until we have drawn N nodes. Complete
trees provide the opportunity to use a compact array representation
that does not involve explicit links. Specifically,
we represent complete binary trees sequentially within an
array by putting the nodes in level order, with the root at
position 1, its children at positions 2 and 3, their children
in positions 4, 5, 6, and 7, and so on. (For brevity, from now on we drop the “binary”
modifier and use the term heap when referring
to a binary heap.) In a heap, the parent of the
node in position k is in position ⎣k /2⎦ and, conversely,
the two children of the node in position
k are in positions 2k and 2k + 1. Instead of using
explicit links (as in the binary tree structures that
we will consider in Chapter 3), we can travel up
and down by doing simple arithmetic on array
indices: to move up the tree from a[k] we set k
to k/2; to move down the tree we set k to 2*k or
2*k+1.
Complete binary trees represented as arrays
(heaps) are rigid structures, but they have just
enough flexibility to allow us to implement efficient
priority-queue operations. Specifically, we
will use them to develop logarithmic-time insert and remove the maximum implementations.
These algorithms take advantage of the capability to move up and down paths
in the tree without pointers and have guaranteed logarithmic performance because of
the following property of complete binary trees: Algorithms on heaps We represent a heap of size N in private array pq[] of
length N + 1, with pq[0] unused and the heap in pq[1] through pq[N]. As for sorting
algorithms, we access keys only through private helper functions less() and exch(),
but since all items are in the instance
variable pq[], we use the more compact
implementations on the next
page that do not involve passing the
array name as a parameter. The heap
operations that we consider work by
first making a simple modification
that could violate the heap condition,
then traveling through the heap, modifying the heap as required to ensure that the heap
condition is satisfied everywhere. We refer to this process as reheapifying, or restoring
heap order.
There are two cases. When the priority of some node is increased (or a new node is
added at the bottom of a heap), we have to travel up the heap to restore the heap order.
When the priority of some node is decreased (for example, if we replace the node at
the root with a new node that has a smaller key), we have to travel down the heap to
restore the heap order. First, we will consider how to implement these two basic auxiliary
operations; then, we shall see how to use them to implement insert and remove the
maximum.
Bottom-up reheapify ( swim). If the heap order is violated because a node’s key becomes
larger than that node’s parent’s key, then we can make progress toward fixing
the violation by exchanging the node with
its parent. After the exchange, the node is
larger than both its children (one is the old
parent, and the other is smaller than the old
parent because it was a child of that node)
but the node may still be larger than its parent.
We can fix that violation in the same
way, and so forth, moving up the heap until
we reach a node with a larger key, or the
root. Coding this process is straightforward
when you keep in mind that the parent of
the node at position k in a heap is at position
k/2. The loop in swim() preserves
the invariant that the only place the heaporder could be violated is when the node at
position k might be larger than its parent.
Therefore, when we get to a place where that
node is not larger than its parent, we know
that the heap order is satisfied throughout
the heap. To justify
the method’s
name, we think
of the new node,
having too large a
key, as having to swim to a higher level in the heap.
Top-down reheapify (sink). If the heap order is violated because
a node’s key becomes smaller than one or both of that
node’s children’s keys, then we can make progress toward fixing
the violation by exchanging the node with the larger of its
two children. This switch may cause a violation at the child;
we fix that violation in the same way, and so forth, moving
down the heap until we reach a node with both children
smaller (or equal), or the bottom. The code again follows directly
from
the fact that
the children of the node at position
k in a heap are at positions 2k and
2k+1. To justify the method’s name,
we think about the node, having too
small a key, as having to sink to a lower
level in the heap.
If we imagine the heap to represent
a cutthroat corporate hierarchy, with
each of the children of a node representing
subordinates (and the parent
representing the immediate superior), then these operations have amusing interpretations.
The swim() operation corresponds to a promising new manager arriving on the
scene, being promoted up the chain of command (by exchanging jobs with any lowerqualified
boss) until the new person encounters a higher-qualified boss. The sink()
operation is analogous to the situation when the president of the company resigns and
is replaced by someone from the outside. If the president’s most powerful subordinate The priority queue is maintained in a heap-ordered complete binary tree in the array pq[] with
pq[0] unused and the N keys in the priority queue in pq[1] through pq[N]. To implement insert(),
we increment N, add the new element at the end, then use swim() to restore the heap order. For
delMax(), we take the value to be returned from pq[1], then move pq[N] to pq[1], decrement the
size of the heap, and use sink() to restore the heap condition. We also set the now-unused position
pq[N+1] to null to allow the system to reclaim the memory associated with it. Code for dynamic
array resizing is omitted, as usual (see Section 1.3). See Exercise 2.4.19 for the other constructors.
318 CHAPTER 2 ■ Sorting
Proposition Q. In an N-key priority queue, the heap algorithms
require no more than 1 + lg N compares for insert
and no more than 2 lg N compares for remove the
maximum.
Proof: By Proposition P, both operations involve moving
along a path between the root and the bottom of the
heap whose number of links is no more than lg N. The
remove the maximum operation requires two compares
for each node on the path (except at the bottom): one
to find the child with the larger key, the other to decide
whether that child needs to be promoted.
For typical applications that require a large number of intermixed
insert and remove the maximum operations in a
large priority queue, Proposition Q represents an important
performance breakthrough, summarized in the table shown
on page 312. Where elementary implementations using an ordered
array or an unordered array require linear time for one
of the operations, a heap-based implementation provides a
guarantee that both operations complete in logarithmic time.
This improvement can make the difference between solving a
problem and not being able to address it at all.
Multiway heaps. It is not difficult to modify our code to
build heaps based on an array representation of complete
heap-ordered ternary trees, with an entry at position k larger
than or equal to entries at positions 3k1, 3k, and 3k 1 and
smaller than or equal to entries at position ⎣(k+1) 
 3⎦, for all
indices between 1 and N in an array of N items, and not much
more difficult to use d-ary heaps for any given d. There is a
tradeoff between the lower cost from the reduced tree height
(log d N) and the higher cost of finding the largest of the d
children at each node. This tradeoff is dependent on details
of the implementation and the expected relative frequency of
operations. A useful way of thinking of this data type is as implementing an array, but with fast access
to the smallest entry in the array. Actually it does even better—it gives fast access
to the minimum entry in a specified subset of an array’s entries (the ones that have been
inserted. In other words, you can think of an IndexMinPQ named pq as representing
a subset of an array pq[0..N-1] of items. Think of the call pq.insert(k, item) as
adding k to the subset and setting pq[k] = item and the call pq.change(k, item)
as setting pq[k] = item, both also maintaining data structures needed to support the
other operations, most importantly delMin() (remove and return the index of the
minimum key) and change() (change the item associated with an index that is already
in the data structure—just as in pq[i] = item). These operations are
important in many applications and are enabled by our ability to refer
to the key (with the index). Exercise 2.4.33 describes how to extend
Algorithm 2.6 to implement index priority queues with remarkable
efficiency and with remarkably little code. Intuitively, when an item in
the heap changes, we can restore the heap invariant with a sink operation
(if the key increases) and a swim operation (if the key decreases).
To perform the operations, we use the index to find the item in the
heap. The ability to locate an item in the heap also allows us to add the
delete() operation to the API.
Proposition Q (continued). In an index priority queue of size N,
the number of compares required is proportional to at most log N
for insert, change priority, delete, and remove the minimum.
Proof: Immediate from inspection of the code and the fact that all
paths in a heap are of length at most ~lg N.
This discussion is for a minimum-oriented queue; as usual, we also
implement on the booksite a maximum-oriented version IndexMaxPQ.
Index priority-queue client. The IndexMinPQ client Multiway on page 322 solves the
multiway merge problem: it merges together several sorted input streams into one
sorted output stream. This problem arises in many applications: the streams might
be the output of scientific instruments (sorted by time), lists of information from the
web such as music or movies (sorted by title or artist name), commercial transactions
(sorted by account number or time), or whatever. If you have the space, you might just
read them all into an array and sort them, but with a priority queue, you can read input
streams and put them in sorted order on the output no matter how long they are. Heapsort We can use any priority queue to develop a sorting method. We insert
all the items to be sorted into a minimum-oriented priority queue, then repeatedly use
remove the minimum to remove them all in order. Using a priority queue represented as
an unordered array in this way corresponds to doing a selection sort; using an ordered
array corresponds to doing an insertion sort. What sorting method do we get if we use
a heap? An entirely different one! Next, we use the heap to develop a classic elegant sorting
algorithm known as heapsort.
Heapsort breaks into two phases: heap construction, where we reorganize the original
array into a heap, and the sortdown, where we pull the items out of the heap in decreasing
order to build the sorted result. For consistency with the code we have studied, we
use a maximum-oriented priority queue and repeatedly remove the maximum. Focusing
on the task of sorting, we abandon the notion of hiding the representation of the
priority queue and use swim() and sink() directly. Doing so allows us to sort an array
without needing any extra space, by maintaining the heap within the array to be sorted.
Heap construction. How difficult is the process of building a heap from N given items?
Certainly we can accomplish this task in time proportional to N log N, by proceeding
from left to right through the array, using swim() to ensure that the items to the left of
the scanning pointer make up a heap-ordered complete tree, like successive priorityqueue
insertions. A clever method that is much more efficient is to proceed from right
to left, using sink() to make subheaps as we go. Every position in the array is the root
of a small subheap; sink() works for such subheaps, as well. If the two children of a
node are heaps, then calling sink() on that node makes the subtree rooted at the parent
a heap. This process establishes the heap order inductively. The scan starts halfway
back through the array because we can skip the subheaps of size 1. The scan ends at
position 1, when we finish building the heap with one call to sink(). As the first phase
of a sort, heap construction is a bit counterintuitive, because its goal is to produce a
heap-ordered result, which has the largest item first in the array (and other larger items
near the beginning), not at the end, where it is destined to finish. Sink to the bottom, then swim. Most items reinserted into the heap during sortdown
go all the way to the bottom. Floyd observed in 1964 that we can thus save time by
avoiding the check for whether the item has reached its position, simply promoting
the larger of the two children until the bottom is reached, then moving back up the
heap to the proper position. This idea cuts the number of compares by a factor of 2 asymptotically—
close to the number used by mergesort (for a randomly-ordered array).
The method requires extra bookkeeping, and it is useful in practice only when the cost
of compares is relatively high (for example, when we are sorting items with strings or
other types of long keys).
Heapsort is significant in the study of the complexity of sorting (see page 279) because
it is the only method that we have seen that is optimal (within a constant factor) in its
use of both time and space—it is guaranteed to use ~2N lg N compares and constant
extra space in the worst case. When space is very tight (for example, in an embedded
system or on a low-cost mobile device) it is popular because it can be implemented
with just a few dozen lines (even in machine code) while still providing optimal performance.
However, it is rarely used in typical applications on modern systems because
it has poor cache performance: array entries are rarely compared with nearby array
entries, so the number of cache misses is far higher than for quicksort, mergesort, and
even shellsort, where most compares are with nearby entries.
On the other hand, the use of heaps to implement priority queues plays an increasingly
important role in modern applications, because it provides an easy way to guarantee
logarithmic running time for dynamic situations where large numbers of insert
and remove the maximum operations are intermixed. We will encounter several examples
later in this book. Sorting algorithms and priority queues are widely used in a broad variety of applications.
Our purpose in this section is to briefly survey some of these applications,
consider ways in which the efficient methods that we have considered play a critical role
in such applications, and discuss some of the steps needed to make use of our sort and
priority-queue code.
A prime reason why sorting is so useful is that it is much easier to search for an item
in a sorted array than in an unsorted one. For over a century, people found it easy to
look up someone’s phone number in a phone book where items are sorted by last name.
Now digital music players organize song files by artist name or song title; search engines
display search results in descending order of importance; spreadsheets display columns
sorted by a particular field; matrix-processing packages sort the real eigenvalues of a
symmetric matrix in descending order; and so forth. Other tasks are also made easier
once an array is in sorted order: from looking up an item in the sorted index in the back
of this book; to removing duplicates from a long list such as a mailing list, a list of voters,
or a list of websites; to performing statistical calculations such as removing outliers,
finding the median, or computing percentiles.
Sorting also arises as a critical subproblem in many applications that appear to have
nothing to do with sorting at all. Data compression, computer graphics, computational
biology, supply-chain management, combinatorial optimization, social choice, and
voting are but a few of many examples. The algorithms that we have considered in this
chapter play a critical role in the development of effective algorithms in each of the later
chapters in this book.
Most important is the system sort, so we begin by considering a number of practical
considerations that come into play when building a sort for use by a broad variety of
clients. While some of these topics are specific to Java, they each reflect challenges that
need to be met in any system.
Our primary purpose is to demonstrate that, even though we have used mechanisms
that are relatively simple, the sorting implementations that we are studying are widely
applicable. The list of proven applications of fast sorting algorithms is vast, so we can
consider just a small fraction of them: some scientific, some algorithmic, and some
commercial. You will find many more examples in the exercises, and many more than
that on the booksite. Moreover, we will often refer back to this chapter to effectively address
the problems that we later consider in this book! Sorting various types of data Our implementations sort arrays of Comparable
objects. This Java convention allows us to use Java’s callback mechanism to sort arrays
of objects of any type that implements the Comparable interface. As described in
Section 2.1, implementing Comparable amounts to defining a compareTo() method
that implements a natural ordering for the type. We can use our code immediately to
sort arrays of type String, Integer, Double, and other types such as File and URL,
because these data types all implement Comparable. Being able to use the same code
for all of those types is convenient, but typical applications involve working with data
types that are defined for use within the application. Accordingly it is common to implement
a compareTo() method for user-defined data types, so that they implement
Comparable, thus enabling client code to sort arrays of that type (and build priority
queues of values of that type).
Transaction example. A prototypical breeding ground for sorting applications is
commercial data processing. For example, imagine that a company engaged in internet
commerce maintains a record for each transaction involving a customer account that
contains all of the pertinent information, such as the customer name, date, amount,
and so forth. Nowadays, a successful company needs to be able to handle millions and
millions of such transactions. As we saw in Exercise 2.1.21, it is reasonable to decide
that a natural ordering of such transactions is that they be ordered by amount, which
we can implement by adding an appropriate compareTo() method in the class definition.
With such a definition, we could process an array a[] of Transactions by, for example,
first sorting it with the call Quick.sort(a). Our sorting methods know nothing
about our Transaction data type, but Java’s Comparable interface allows us to define
a natural ordering so that we can use any of our methods to sort Transaction objects.
Alternatively, we might specify that Transaction objects are to be ordered by date by
implementing compareTo() to compare the Date fields. Since Date objects are themselves
Comparable, we can just invoke the compareTo() method in Date rather than
having to implement it from scratch. It is also reasonable to consider ordering this data
by it customer field; arranging to allow clients the flexibility to switch among multiple
different orders is an interesting challenge that we will soon consider. Pointer sorting. The approach we are using is known in the classical literature as
pointer sorting, so called because we process references to items and do not move the
data itself. In programming languages such as C and C++, programmers explicitly decide
whether to manipulate data or pointers to data; in Java, pointer manipulation is
implicit. Except for primitive numeric types, we always manipulate references to objects
(pointers), not the objects themselves. Pointer sorting adds a level of indirection:
the array contains references to the objects to be sorted, not the objects themselves. We
briefly consider some associated issues, in the context of sorting. With multiple reference
arrays, we can have multiple different sorted representations of different parts of a
single body of data (perhaps using multiple keys, as described below). Memleket dfgg dfh fgh gfg ghj ghjg hjghjghj ghjghj ghj ghg ghjhg jkh g fghfg dg dfg  hgnj f dfg ghjg hjd sed gffghghj gh jgh jghkjgh fgg jhjkhj khjmhjf  gdfg fgh hjghj sdhghjghj h j s ghmf gfgh pkl fpgoh pol hfghplofgpolşhfgolp  pol pğff ğpğp fğp fğp fğ fpgğpf ghplfghğf ğgh işfghspğlf-w sled ps ğpdf lspdğfl s asd fgd fsdf dfgs d rfgds fsafdsdfsf sd ffghndf gdfgds dfgdf gdfg ssdf sdf sdfsdfhg ab from (e.g. time) ab und zu now and again Abend (abends) (in the) evening als/ wenn when (conj) bald (bis bald) soon (see you…soon!) bevor before damals then (= at that time) dann then (= at that time) endlich / zuletzt finally / at last erst (um) not until früh (früher) early (previously) gestern yesterday gewöhnlich usually heute today immer (noch) always (still) manchmal sometime(s) Mittag (mittags) midday (at midday) Mitte (mitten in) middle (in the middle of) Mitternacht midnight Monat (monatlich) month(ly) morgen tomorrow Morgen (morgens) (in the) morning nachdem after nachher afterwards Nachmittag (nachmittags) (in the) afternoon nächst following/next (e.g.day/week) neulich recently nicht mehr no longer nie never noch still (=even now) noch nicht not yet plötzlich suddenly schon already sobald as soon as sofort immediately täglich daily übermorgen day after tomorrow vorgestern day before yesterday vorher beforehand/ previously Vormittag (vormittags) morning (in the morning) zuerst at first GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 5 of 52 © OCR 2009 German Vocabulary List General aber but / however alle all / everyone allein alone also / so therefore / so andere other anderthalb one and a half anfangen to begin/ start Antwort answer antworten to answer Art sort / kind auch also Auf Wiedersehen good-bye! Augenblick moment ausgezeichnet excellent außer except for befriedigend satisfactory beginnen to begin/start begrüßen to greet behalten to keep behandeln to treat Behandlung treatment beide both Beispiel example bekommen to receive beliebt popular bemerken to notice benutzen to use bequem comfortable besitzen to own besonders particular(ly) besser better besprechen to discuss bestimmt definitely bestrafen to punish besuchen to visit bieten / anbieten to offer billig cheap bisschen (ein) a little bitte please brauchen to need brechen to break breit wide bringen to bring d.h. i.e. danke(n) thank you (to thank) dass that Datum date dauern to last denken to think dies this Ding thing doch yes (contradicting) drücken to press / push dürfen to be allowed to / “may” Dutzend a dozen Page 6 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 German Vocabulary List General eben just ebenso just as egal (das ist mir egal) (I don’t care!) ehemalig former / previous eigen own eilen (sich beeilen) to hurry (up) einander one another/ each other einige some / a few einmal (noch einmal) once (more) einverstanden agreed Ende end / finish eng narrow / tight entfernt away / distant entschuldigen Sie! (sich entschuldigen) excuse me! (to apologise) Entschuldigung! sorry! entweder … oder either … or erinnern (sich) to remind (remember) erkennen to recognise erzählen (Erzählung) to tell / recount (story) es gibt there is / are es macht nichts it doesn't matter etwa / ungefähr about / roughly / approximately etwas (irgend etwas) something (or other) fallen (lassen) to fall (to drop) falsch wrong fast almost fehlen to be missing Fehler mistake fertig ready / finished finden to find folgen to follow Frage (eine Frage stellen) question (to ask a question) fragen to ask gar nicht not at all geben (es gibt) to give (there is) genau exactly genug enough gern glad(ly) geschlossen closed getrennt separate(ly) glauben to think / believe gleich (der/das/die gleiche) immediately (the same) glücklich (Glück) happy (good luck) Gott God gratulieren to congratulate Grund ground / reason Gruss greeting günstig favourable gut good guten Tag hello haben to have halb half Hälfte a half halten to hold / to stop (moving) hier here GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 7 of 52 © OCR 2009 German Vocabulary List General hochachtungsvoll yours faithfully hoffen to hope Idee idea in Ordnung / klar! O.K.! inbegriffen included irgendwo somewhere (or other) ja yes je / das Stück each (=per item) jeder each / every / everybody jemand someone/ somebody jener that jetzt now kaputt broken kein no (= not any) klar clear können to be able to/ "can" kriegen to get lang long lange long (e.g. a long time) langsam slow lassen to let / leave (s.th) leider unfortunately leid tun (es tut mir leid) to feel sorry for (I’m sorry) leihen (sich) to lend (to borrow) letzt last (adj) machen to do / make mal e.g. zweimal times e.g. twice mäßig moderate mehr more mehrere several Meinung opinion mit freundlichen Grüßen yours sincerely mögen to like (to) möglich possible müssen to have to / "must" natürlich of course nehmen to take nein no neu new nicht not nichts nothing niemand no-one / nobody Nummer number nur only oder or offen open öffnen to open oft often ohne without Paar (ein) a pair / couple paar (ein) a few Page 8 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 German Vocabulary List General prima! great! / cool! pro per Prost! Cheers! Prozent per cent Qualität quality Quatsch nonsense rufen to call / shout ruhig (Ruhe) quiet (rest / quiet) rund round (=shape) sagen to say / tell Schade! a pity! schlecht bad schließen (abschließen) to close (lock) schließlich finally schlimm bad schrecklich terrible schreien to shout/ scream sehr very sein to be seitdem since Sekunde second selbe (der/das/dieselbe) same sicher certain(ly) / sure(ly) sogar even sollen ("sollte") (ought to / should) sonst otherwise sowohl ... als auch both ... and toll! great! cool! Tschüs(s) ! cheerio!/ bye!/ see you! tun to do überall everywhere Uhr clock / watch / o'clock um ... zu to (=in order to) und and unmöglich impossible verschieden different/ various Verzeihung! Sorry! viel a lot / much / many vielleicht perhaps Viertel a quarter voll full wahr (nicht wahr?) true (isn't it?) wechseln to change weil because Weise (auf diese Weise) way (in this way) wenig(er) little (less) wenigstens at least wenn when / if werden to become / get wichtig important wie as / like Wie bitte? pardon? GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 9 of 52 © OCR 2009 German Vocabulary List General Wie geht's? how are you? wieder again wiederholen to repeat willkommen welcome wirklich really wollen to want to wunderbar wonderful Wunsch wish wünschen to wish Zahl figure / number ziehen to pull Ziel aim ziemlich quite / fairly zu too (e.g. too old) / closed zufrieden contented zumachen to close zusammen together Higher Absicht intention Achtung attention ähnlich similar ahnen to suspect Ahnung idea außer(dem) except (besides) äußerst extremely bedeuten to mean damit so that enttäuschen to disappoint enttäuscht disappointed erklären to explain erlauben to allow / permit es kommt darauf an to depend (it depends) fließend fluently Folge consequence gehören to belong to genügen to suffice geschehen to happen häufig frequently heutzutage nowadays höchstens at most im voraus in advance insgesamt altogether irren (sich) to be wrong kaum hardly / scarcely ob whether obgleich / obwohl although sobald as soon as statt instead of umsonst in vain / free völlig completely / fully vor allem above all vor kurzem recently / a short time ago Vorsicht (vorsichtig) careful(!) wagen to dare während while weder … noch neither ... nor Page 10 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 German Vocabulary List General GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 11 of 52 © OCR 2009 wertvoll / wertlos valuable / worthless zusätzlich additional zwar indeed Foundation abtrocknen to dry up abwaschen to wash up anmachen to put on / turn on anziehen (sich) to put on (get dressed) aufstehen to get up / stand up aufwachen to wake up auskommen mit to get on with ausruhen (sich) to have a rest aussehen to look (appearance) ausziehen (sich) to get undressed backen to bake beschreiben to describe Buchstabe letter (=of alphabet) buchstabieren to spell bügeln (Bügeleisen) to iron (iron) bürsten to brush e.g.hair decken to lay e.g. table einschlafen to go to sleep hinlegen (sich) to lie down hinsetzen (sich) to sit down kehren to sweep leer empty leeren to empty legen to put (= to lay) Liebe love lieben to love liegen to lie (be lying down) mähen to mow organisieren to organise putzen to clean schlafen to sleep schneiden to cut sitzen (sich setzen) to sit (down) spülen (abspülen) to wash up Staub saugen to hoover / vacuum clean stecken to put (inside something) stehen to stand stellen to put / place (e.g. a vase) Teil part teilen to share trocken dry trocknen to dry umziehen (sich) to move house (to get changed) vorbereiten to prepare waschen (sich) to wash (o.s.) wecken to wake s.o. wiegen to weigh zunehmen to grow / get bigger / increase Adresse address Page 14 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area Alter age Bart beard Brille glasses Familienname surname geboren born Geburts(tag / ort) birth(day / place of) Heimat home Heimfahrt / Heimweg home journey / way home heiraten to marry heißen to be called ledig single / unmarried Lieber / Liebe Dear (=letters) verheiratet married verlobt engaged versprechen to promise Vorname first name alt(modisch) old(fashioned) angenehm pleasant / enjoyable ängstlich anxious berühmt famous blöd / dumm stupid böse angry dick fat / thick doof stupid ehrlich honest ernst serious fleißig hard working frech cheeky Freude joy freundlich friendly furchtbar awful geduldig patient gefallen to like gemütlich cosy / cheery glatt (Glatteis) smooth / straight e.g.hair (black ice) groß tall Größe size / height (of people) hassen to hate hässlich ugly hilfsbereit / hilfreich helpful höflich polite hübsch pretty klein small / short klug clever komisch funny kurz short Laune (guter / schlechter) in a good / bad mood laut noisy / loud lockig curly lustig funny merkwürdig funny / strange mittelgroß / mittellang medium / average (=height/length) müde (ermüdend) tired (tiring) nervös nervous nett nice ordentlich tidy Pech luck (bad) reich rich GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 15 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area sanft soft / gentle satt full up / fed up sauber clean scharf sharp schick smart (e.g. dress) schlank slim schmutzig dirty schüchtern shy stark strong streng strict tot dead traurig sad unordentlich untidy Unrecht haben to be wrong verstehen (sich) to understand (get on with) Anzug suit (men's) Armband(uhr) bracelet (wrist watch) BH / Büstenhalter bra Bluse blouse Gürtel belt Halskette necklace Handschuh glove Handtasche handbag Hemd shirt Hose trousers Hut hat Jacke jacket Kleid dress Kleider / Kleidung clothes / clothing Kostüm suit (women's) Krawatte / Schlips tie Lippe(nstift) lip(stick) Mantel coat Mode (modisch) fashion(able) Mütze cap Nacht(hemd) night (dress) Ohrringe earrings Parfüm perfume Pulli pullover Rock skirt Schal scarf Schlafanzug pyjamas Schuhe shoes Slip panties Socke sock Stiefel boot Strumpfhose tights Tasche (Einkaufstasche) pocket / bag (shopping bag) tragen to carry / wear Trainingsanzug tracksuit Turnschuhe trainers Unterhose underpants Unterwäsche underwear Arbeitszimmer study Backofen oven Badewanne bath (tub) Badezimmer bathroom Page 16 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area Bücherregal book case Bude stall / stand/ room Decke blanket / ceiling Diele hall (=entrance to house) Doppelhaus semi-detached house Dusche shower duschen to have a shower Einfamilienhaus detached house Elektroherd electric cooker Erdgeschoss ground floor Esszimmer dining room Etagenbett bunk bed Fenster window Flur hall Fußboden floor Gardine curtain Garten garden Gasherd gas cooker Haarbürste hairbrush Handtuch (Badetuch) towel (bath towel) Heizkörper radiator Heizung (Zentralheizung) heating (central) Kamm comb kämmen to comb (hair) Keller cellar Kissen cushion Kleiderschrank wardrobe Klingel (door) bell Klo loo Knopf button Kommode chest of drawers Kühlschrank fridge Lampe lamp Licht light Mikrowellenherd microwave Möbel furniture möbliert furnished oben at the top / upstairs Pflanze plant Rasen lawn Regal shelf Reihe row (e.g. of seats etc) Reihenhaus terraced house Schlafzimmer (Schlafraum) bedroom (dormitory) Schlüssel(bund) key (ring) Schrank cupboard Seife soap Sessel armchair Sofa sofa / settee Spülbecken sink Spülmaschine dishwasher Steppdecke duvet Stereoanlage stereo system Stock (im ersten Stock) floor (e.g. on the 1st floor) Stufe step/ stair Stuhl chair Tablett tray Tapete wallpaper Teppich carpet GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 17 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area Terasse terrace / patio tief deep Tiefkühltruhe freezer Tisch table Tischtuch tablecloth Toilettenpapier toilet paper Topf saucepan Treppe stairs Tuch cloth Tür door unten at the bottom / downstairs Vorhang curtain Wand wall (interior) Waschbecken washbasin Wäsche washing Waschküche utility room / laundry room Waschmaschine washing machine Waschpulver wash powder Wasserhahn tap Wecker alarm clock Wohnzimmer living room Brief letter Brieffreund/in pen friend Bruder brother Cousin / Vetter / Kusine cousin Dame lady Ehefrau/ Ehemann/ Ehepaar wife / husband / married couple Einzelkind only child Eltern parents Enkel/in / Enkelkind grandson / daughter / child Erwachsene adult Familie family` Frau Mrs / woman Fräulein(!) Miss (waitress!) Freund/in friend (boy / girl) Geschwister brothers and sisters Großvater / Großmutter / Großeltern grandfather / mother / parents Junge boy Leute / Menschen people Mädchen girl männlich male Mutter / Mutti mother / mum Nachbar/in neighbour Neffe nephew Nichte niece Onkel uncle Opa / Oma grandad / granny Schwester sister Sohn son Tante aunt Tochter daughter Vater / Vati father / dad Verwandte relative (= relation) weiblich female Zwillinge twins Biene bee Ente duck Page 18 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area fressen to eat (animals) füttern to feed (=pets) Hase hare Hund dog Kaninchen rabbit Katze cat Kuh cow Meerschweinchen guinea pig Pferd horse Schaf sheep Schildkröte tortoise Schlange (stehen) snake (to queue) Tier (Haustier) animal (pet) Vogel bird Wellensittich budgerigar Backstein brick Baumwolle cotton Holz wood Kohle coal Kunststoff plastic Leder leather Metall metal Seide silk Stahl steel Stein stone Stoff material Wolle wool blau blue bunt bright (= colour) Farbe colour / paint gelb yellow grau grey grün green hell pale (colour) lila purple rosa pink rot red schwarz black silber silver Higher abnehmen to lose weight / slim Alptraum nightmare altmodisch old fashioned ändern to change anprobieren to try on Anrichte sideboard anschalten to switch on anstrengend tiring anziehen to attract ärgerlich annoying ärgern to annoy artig well behaved aufgeregt excited aufschließen to unlock ausschalten to switch off ausschlafen to have a lie in GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 19 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area begießen to water (plants) beißen (Biss) to bite (bite) bewundern to admire Beziehung relationship Braut (Bräutigam) bride (bridegroom) Dachboden attic / loft duzen to call du echt genuine Ehe marriage Eigenschaft quality / characteristic Eindruck impression erscheinen to appear Fensterladen shutter Fernbedienung remote control Freundschaft friendship Gebrauchsanweisung instructions for use Gedächtnis memory Gefahr (gefährlich) danger(ous) geschieden divorced Geschlecht sex / gender getrennt separated Gewicht weight Griff handle gütig kind heizen to heat Hütte shed / hut Jahrhundert century Kabel cable / wiring Käfig cage Kamin fireplace (hearth) Klapp- (stuhl / tisch) folding (chair / table) Klimaanlage air-conditioning klopfen to knock König king Königin queen Kontaktlinsen contact lenses Krug jug lächeln to smile lächerlich ridiculous Lage situation Lärm noise (loud) lebhaft lively nennen to name neugierig curious / inquisitive Persönlichkeit personality Puppe doll Quadratmeter square metre Rasierapparat shaver sich rasieren to shave reißen to tear Reißverschluss zip Rowdy lout / hooligan rücksichtslos careless sanft gentle Schloss lock (of door) schminken (sich) to put on make-up Schmuck jewellery Schublade drawer Schuppen shed Page 20 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area Schwager brother-in-law Schwägerin sister-in-law schwanger pregnant Schwiegermutter mother-in-law Schwiegervater father-in-law sehr geehrte(r) Herr / Frau dear Sir / Madam selbständig independently seltsam odd / strange Senioren senior citizens Spülküche utility room Stiefmutter / vater step-mother / father Streichhölzer matches Streit argument / quarrel stumm silent / mute sympathisch nice Tastatur keyboard (computer) taub deaf Teppichboden fitted carpet Traum dream träumen to dream Verantwortung responsibility Vergnügen pleasure vergrößern to enlarge vernünftig sensible / reasonable verrückt mad Vertrauen trust Waschlappen flannel weinen to cry (tears) Werkzeug implement Wintergarten conservatory winzig tiny Witwe widow Witwer widower zornig angry Zufall (zufällig) (by) chance zunehmen to put on weight / increase Local area, facilities and getting around Foundation Acker field (=arable) Allee avenue Bach stream bauen to build Bauer / Bäuerin farmer / farmer(‘s wife) Bauernhof farm Baum tree Berg mountain Blatt leaf / piece of paper Boden ground Bundesstraße A-road Bürgersteig pavement Bushaltestelle bus stop Dach roof Einbahnstraße one way street Feld field flach flat GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 21 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area Fluss river Gebiet region / area Gebirge mountain range Gegend district Hecke hedge Hügel (hügelig) hill(y) Kanal canal / channel Loch hole Straße street / road Straßenbahn tram Tal valley Ufer (Flussufer) (river) bank Wald wood / forest Wiese field / meadow Wohnblock block of flats wohnen to live Wohnung flat Apotheke (Apotheker) chemist's (chemist) Bäcker/in (Bäckerei) baker(‘s shop) Bibliothek(ar/in) library (librarian) Briefkasten letter box Briefmarke postage stamp Brücke bridge Buch(handlung) book (shop) Burg castle Delikatessengeschäft delicatessen Dom / Kathedrale cathedral Drogerie chemists Einkaufszentrum shopping centre einwerfen to post Gemüsehändler greengrocer’s Geschäft shop Juwelier jeweller Kapelle chapel Kino cinema Kirche church Kneipe pub Konditorei cake / sweet shop Kunst(galerie) art (gallery) Leben life leben to live Lebensmittel(geschäft) food/ groceries (grocer’s shop) Markt (Marktplatz) market (place) Metzger(ei) butcher (‘s shop) Modegeschäft clothes shop Post(amt) post office Postleitzahl post code Rathaus town hall Schloss castle sparen to save Sparkasse savings bank tanken to fill up with petrol Tankstelle petrol station Turm tower Verkehrsamt tourist office Zentrum centre Ausgang / Ausfahrt exit (= building / motorway) Page 22 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area Auto car Autobahn motorway Benzin petrol bremsen to brake Bremsen brakes Eingang / Einfahrt entrance einsteigen to get on / in (vehicles) Fähre (Autofähre) ferry (car ferry) fahren to go / drive Fahrer/in driver Fahrgast / Passagier passenger führen to lead Führerschein driving licence Fußgänger(zone) pedestrian (area) gehen to go / walk holen to fetch kommen to come Kreuzung crossroads Kurve bend Lastwagen / LKW lorry Lieferwagen van (delivery) Linie line / bus route Marke make (of car) Mofa moped Motorrad (fahrer/in) motorbike(rider) Raststätte motorway services Schild (Straßenschild) sign (roadsign) verlassen to leave (place) Wagen car Weg / Fußweg way / path weggehen to go away Werkstatt repair workshop / garage Werkzeug tools abfahren to depart Abfahrt / Abflug departure abholen to meet (= pick up/ fetch) Abteil compartment anhalten to stop (vehicles) ankommen to arrive Ankunft arrival aussteigen to get off Automat machine Bahn (Bahnsteig) railway (platform) Bahnhof station besetzt occupied (e.g. seat) D-Zug express train einfach easy / single (ticket) Eisen iron Eisenbahnlinie railway line Fahrgeld fare Fahrkarte ticket Fahrkartenschalter ticket office Fahrplan timetable (bus / train) Fahrt journey (short) Gleis platform / line hin und zurück there & back i.e. return Rücken back Rückfahrt return journey GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 23 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area S-Bahn suburban railway U-Bahn(station) underground / tube / métro (station) umsteigen to change (e.g. trains) Verbindung (verbinden) connection e.g. trains (to connect) Verkehr(smittel) traffic (means of transport) verpassen to miss e.g. bus / train Verspätung delay warten auf to wait for Warteraum / saal / zimmer waiting room Zug(führer) train (driver) zurück back zurückkommen to return / come / go back Boot boat Bord board (on) Fahrrad / Rad bicycle fliegen to fly Flug flight Flughafen airport Flugzeug plane Hubschrauber helicopter Miete rent mieten to rent / hire Rad wheel Radfahren cycling radfahren to cycle Radfahrer/in cyclist Schiff ship starten to take off (plane) vermieten to rent / hire (out) Dorf village dort(hin) there (to there) dort drüben over there draußen outside drinnen inside Ecke corner Einwohner/in inhabitant geradeaus straight ahead Großstadt city Hafen(stadt) harbour (port) Hauptbahnhof / Hauptstraße main station/ road Hauptstadt capital hinten at the back hinter behind links left (on the left side) Nähe (in der Nähe von) near to / nearby Rand edge rechts right (on the) Richtung direction Stadt (Partnerstadt) town (twin town) Stadtrundfahrt town tour vor in front of / outside / before vorbeigehen/fahren to go past vorne at the front Vorort suburb weit far (away) from/ distant Page 24 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 1 Home and local area GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 25 of 52 © OCR 2009 Higher anbauen to grow (crops) anschnallen (sich) to fasten seat belt außer Betrieb out of order / not working Autobahnkreuz motorway junction Bahnübergang level crossing Baustelle building site / roadworks befinden (sich) to be situated beilegen to enclose Eimer bucket einwerfen to post (a letter) entwerten to cancel / stamp a ticket Fahrzeug vehicle Fels rock (mineral) fließen to flow gebrauchen (gebraucht) to use (second hand) Gegenteil opposite Geschwindigkeits(begrenzung) speed (limit) Gipfel summit Hauptverkehrszeit rush hour hupen to hoot Kennzeichen registration number Klippe cliff Kofferraum boot (of car) Kreis(verkehr) circle (roundabout) Leitung cable / wiring / pipes Lenkrad steering wheel liefern to deliver Luftdruck tyre pressure öffentlich public Reinigung dry cleaning Rückspiegel rear-view mirror Rundfunk radio Sicherheit safety Sicherheitsgurt seatbelt Stau hold-up / traffic jam Steuer(rad) steering wheel überfahren to run over überholen to overtake überqueren to cross (road) umgeben von surrounded by Umleitung diversion Vorfahrt priority / right of way wachsen to gro Weinberg vineyard Windschutzscheibe windscreen Zebrastreifen zebra-crossing zusammenstoßen mit to collide with Page 26 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Page 27 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 2: Health and sport Sport, outdoor pursuits and healthy lifestyle Food and drink as aspects of culture and health Topic Area 2 Health and sport Topic Area 2 Health and sport Sport, outdoor pursuits and healthy lifestyle Foundation Auge eye Bauch tummy Bein leg Gesicht face Haare hair Hals neck/ throat Knie knee Körper body Mund mouth Nase nose Ohr ear Schulter shoulder angeln to fish Angelrute fishing rod Bad bath baden to bathe Badeanzug/hose swimming costume/trunks Badeort seaside resort bewegen to move Endspiel final (e.g. sport) Freibad swimming pool (open air) Fuß (zu Fuß gehen) foot (go on foot) Fußball football gewinnen to win Hallenbad indoor swimming pool joggen to jog Kanufahren canoeing kegeln to play skittles klettern to climb laufen to run Leichtathletik athletics Liga league Mannschaft team Netz net Reiten horse riding rennen to run Rennen race Rollbrett skateboard Roller scooter Rollschuh laufen to roller skate Ruderboot rowing boat rudern to row schießen to shoot schlagen to hit Schläger racquet / stick / bat Schließfach locker Schlittschuhlaufen to ice skate Schwimmbad swimming pool schwimmen to swim Page 28 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 2 Health and sport See (der/die) (an der See) lake / sea (at the sea-side) segeln to sail Ski fahren to ski Skilehrer/in ski instructor spazierengehen to go for a walk Spaziergang walk Spiel(film) game / match (feature film) spielen to play (music / sports / cards) Spieler player Spielzeug toy(s) Sport treiben to do sport Sportplatz sports ground / school field springen to jump Stadion stadium steigen to climb Surfbrett surfboard Tor (ein Tor schießen) gate / goal (to score a goal) Umkleideraum changing room Verein club verlieren to lose wandern to hike Wanderung hike werfen to throw windsurfen to windsurf Biene bee Erkältung (sich erkälten) a cold (to catch a cold) Fieber fever / a temperature Fliege fly fühlen to feel Gefühl feeling gesund (Gesundheit) healthy (health) Grippe flu Halsschmerzen sore throat Hansaplast sticking plaster Heftpflaster sticking plaster helfen (Hilfe!) to help (help!) Husten cough husten to cough Kopfschmerzen headache krank (Krankheit) ill(ness) Krankenhaus hospital Krankenpfleger/ Krankenschwester nurse(male/female) Krankenwagen ambulance Magen(schmerzen) stomach (ache) Medikament medicine Operation operation (=medical) Patient/in patient Rezept prescription / recipe Schmerzen (schmerzhaft) pain(ful) Schnupfen cold seekrank seasick sprechen to speak Sprechstunde surgery hours stechen to sting Stich sting Tablette tablet/pill Unfall accident verletzen (sich) to injure (o.s.) GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 29 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 2 Health and sport weh tun to hurt (e.g. my arm hurts) Wespe wasp Wunde wound Zahn(schmerzen) tooth (ache) Zahnarzt / Zahnärztin dentist Zahnbürste toothbrush Zahnpasta toothpaste Higher Anfänger beginner bluten to bleed Blutprobe blood test brennen to burn Brust chest Chirurg(in) surgeon Durchfall diarrhoea Ellbogen elbow erbrechen (sich) to be sick Ereignis event Erfolg success Ergebnis result / score erhalten to receive erholen (sich) to recover / get better Erleichterung relief erreichen to reach / catch erste Hilfe first aid fangen to catch Fußgelenk ankle Gehirn brain Geruch smell geschwollen swollen Gips(verband) plaster Glatze bald patch Handgelenk wrist Haut skin heben to lift / raise Heimweh homesickness Helm helmet Heuschnupfen hay fever Höhe height Höhle cave Hustensaft cough mixture jagen to hunt Kinn chin Knochen bone leiden to suffer Magenverstimmung stomach upset Meister(schaft) champion(ship) Menge (Menschenmenge) quantity (crowd) messen to measure nackt naked Pfeil arrow pflegen to look after (patient) Pokal cup (trophy) Röntgenbild x-ray Salbe cream / ointment schaden to do harm Schaden damage Page 30 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 2 Health and sport Schiedsrichter referee schlucken to swallow Sieg win / victory Sonnenstich sun stroke Sorge (sich Sorgen machen) worry (to worry) sorgen für to look after Spritze injection tauchen to dive teilnehmen to take part Turnier tournament übergeben (sich) to be sick unentschieden undecided / drawn (match) untersuchen to examine (patient) Verband bandage verstauchen (sich) to sprain verstopft constipated Wange cheek Wettbewerb competition Wettkampf competition Zeh toe Zunge tongue Food and drink as aspects of culture and health Foundation Abendessen dinner / evening meal Appetit (guten Appetit!) appetite (enjoy your meal!) Durst (durstig) thirst(y) Flamme flame Flasche bottle frisch fresh Frühstück breakfast Gabel fork gemischt mixed Gericht dish / course Geschirr(tuch) crockery (tea towel) Getränk drink Glas jar / pot (e.g. jam) grillen to grill / barbecue Imbiss(stube) snack (bar) Kännchen small pot Kantine canteen Küche kitchen lecker delicious Löffel spoon Mahlzeit (!) meal (enjoy your meal!) Messer knife Mittagessen lunch / midday meal Nachtisch dessert schmecken to taste schnell quick Schnellimbiss fast food restaurant Schüssel bowl Selbstbedienung self-service Speisekarte menu Speisewagen dining car Supermarkt supermarket GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 31 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 2 Health and sport süß sweet Tageskarte menu / dish (of the day) Tasse cup Tee (kanne) tea (pot) Tee / Kaffee trinken to have afternoon tea / coffee Teller plate trinken to drink Untertasse saucer Vorspeise starter/ first course zum Mitnehmen take away meals zum Wohl! cheers! alkohol(frei) alcohol (non-alcoholic) Bier beer Cola coke Fruchtsaft fruit juice Kaffee(kanne) coffee (pot) Limonade lemonade Milch milk Saft juice Schnaps schnaps / spirits Sekt champagne (German) Sprudel pop (=fizzy drink) Wasser (Trink / Mineral) water (drinking / mineral) Wein (Rot / Weiß) wine (red / white) Ananas pineapple Apfel apple Apfelsine orange Aprikose apricot Aufschnitt sliced meats (e.g. salami) Birne pear / light bulb Blumenkohl cauliflower Bockwurst boiled sausage Bohnen beans Bonbons sweets Braten joint / roast meat braten to roast Bratkartoffeln (Bratpfanne) fried potatoes (frying pan) Bratwurst sausage (fried) Brot bread / loaf Brötchen bread roll Butterbrot sandwich Chips / Kartoffelschips crisps Cornflakes cereals Ei egg Eintopf stew Eis(becher) ice / ice-cream (sundae) Erbsen peas Erdbeere strawberry essen to eat Essen meal / food Essig vinegar Fleisch meat Forelle trout Frikadelle meatball Gans goose gekochtes Ei (ein) boiled egg Gemüse vegetables Page 32 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 2 Health and sport Gewürz spice Gurke cucumber Hähnchen chicken (food) Himbeere raspberry Honig honey Kalbfleisch veal Karotte carrot Kartoffel(salat) potato (salad) Kartoffelbrei/püree mashed potato Käse cheese Kaugummi chewing gum Kekse biscuits Kirsche cherry Kohl cabbage Kopfsalat lettuce Kotelett chop / cutlet Kuchen cake Lachs salmon Lamm(fleisch) lamb= animal (lamb =meat) Leber liver Marmelade jam Nudeln pasta / noodles Nuss (Erdnuss) nut (peanut) Obst fruit Öl oil Orangenmarmelade marmelade Pampelmuse grapefruit Pfeffer pepper Pfirsich peach Pflaume plum Pilz mushroom Pommes (frites) chips Pralinen chocolates Riegel bar (e.g. of chocolate) Rindfleisch beef Rosenkohl brussel sprouts Salz salt Salzkartoffeln boiled potatoes Sauerkraut pickled cabbage Schaschlick kebab Scheibe slice Schinken ham Schlagsahne whipped cream Schnitzel escalope / schnitzel Schokolade chocolate / chocolate drink schwarze Johannisbeere blackcurrant Schweinefleisch pork Senf mustard Soße gravy / sauce Speck bacon Spiegelei fried egg Spinat spinach Suppe soup Süßigkeiten sweets Toastbrot toast Traube / Weintraube grape Truthahn turkey weiß (Weißbrot) white (white bread) Wurst sausage GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 33 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 2 Health and sport Page 34 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Zitrone lemon Zucker sugar Zwiebel onion Büchse can Dose(nöffner) can / tin (opener) Karton cardboard box Korb basket Packung / Paket packet Portion helping / portion Schachtel box (e.g.chocolates) Tüte bag (= paper/ plastic) Higher Besteck cutlery bestehen aus to consist of Diät (eine Diät halten) diet (to be on a diet) dienen to serve enthalten to contain Fett fat / grease Geflügel poultry Geschmack taste gießen to pour pikant spicy probieren to try reichen to pass (e.g. salt) riechen to smell (sth) satt full up (food) schälen to peel Spargel asparagus Vegetarier(in) vegetarian Verpackung packaging Weinprobe (Weinlese) wine-tasting (grape harvest) Page 35 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 3: Leisure and entertainment (includes online) Socialising, special occasions and festivals TV, films and music Topic Area 3 Leisure and entertainment Topic Area 3 Leisure and entertainment (includes online) Socialising, special occasions and festivals Foundation amüsieren (sich) to enjoy oneself Ansichtskarte postcard (picture) ausgeben to spend (money) ausgehen to go out Auskunft information Ausstellung exhibition basteln to make things / do DIY bestellen (abbestellen) to order (to cancel) bezahlen to pay (for) Bild picture Blume(nhändler) flower (florist) Chor choir Computerspiel computer game die Sehenswürdigkeiten besichtigen to go sight-seeing einkaufen (gehen) to shop / go shopping Einladung (einladen) invitation (to invite) Eintritt admission charge Eisbahn (Eis laufen) ice rink (to ice skate) Erfrischungen refreshments Fest festival / party Feuer(werk) fire(works) frei (im Freien) free / (in the open air) Freizeit(beschäftigung) free time/ leisure (activity) fröhliche Weihnachten Happy Christmas Heiligabend Christmas Eve Ostern Easter Silvester New Year's Eve Weihnachten Christmas Weihnachtsbaum / Tannenbaum Christmas/fir tree funktionieren to work (function) genießen to enjoy Geschenk present Handy mobile phone Herr Mr / gentleman Herr Ober! waiter! Herz heart im Freien open air (in the) Jugendklub youth club Jugendliche (r) young person jung young Kalender/Terminkalender diary (for appointments) Karte(n) card (playing/ greetings) kaufen to buy Kaufhaus department store kennen to know (people) kennen lernen to get to know kosten(los) to cost (free) Kuss kiss lachen to laugh Page 36 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 3 Leisure and entertainment Lust haben to feel like (doing something) malen to paint Mitglied member Preis price / prize preiswert cheap / value for money Rechnung bill (e.g. restaurant) reservieren to reserve sammeln to collect Schach chess schenken to give (a present) schicken (eine SMS / eine E-mail) to send (to text / e-mail) Schlussverkauf sale Sonderangebot special offer spannend exciting Spaß fun spät late teuer expensive/ dear treffen to meet (by intention) Treffpunkt meeting place verbringen to spend (=time) verkaufen (ausverkaufen) to sell (out) vorstellen (sich) to introduce oneself zahlen to pay (the bill) Higher begegnen to meet begleiten to accompany bekannt well-known Bekannter acquaintance drucken to print Drucker printer empfehlen to recommend Ergebnis result / score Ermässigung discount Faschingsdienstag Shrove Tuesday faulenzen to laze about feiern to celebrate Festtag public holiday Gebühr fee gebührenfrei / gratis free Gemälde painting herunterladen to download Hochzeit wedding Kabel cable / wiring Karneval carnival Kerze candle Messe mass (church) plaudern to chat Schaufensterbummel window shopping schieben to push schmücken to decorate (garlands) Sitten customs/ traditions Tastatur keyboard (computer) tippen to type überraschen to surprise Verabredung appointment Veranstaltung event vorziehen to prefer GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 37 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 3 Leisure and entertainment TV, films and music Foundation Blockflöte recorder Flöte/ Querflöte flute Geige violin Gitarre guitar Klarinette clarinet Klavier piano Schlagzeug drums / percussion Trompete trumpet üben to practise Dokumentarfilm documentary Komödie comedy Krimi crime story/ thriller Nachrichten news Quizsendung quiz show Seifenoper soap opera Sendung programme (e.g. TV) Serie series (e.g. on TV) Zeichentrickfilm cartoon anschauen / ansehen to look at Ball ball (= sport / dance) fernsehen to watch TV Fernseher TV set hören to hear Hörer receiver (telephone) Illustrierte magazine Konzert concert Kopf(hörer) head(phones) Lieblings- favourite Lied song Musik (Pop/Volks/klassische) music (pop /folk /classical) Musiker/in (musizieren) musician (to play music) Oper opera Roman novel Sänger/in singer Schauspieler/in actor/ actress sehen to see singen to sing Stereoanlage stereo system Tanz dance tanzen to dance Taschenbuch paperback Theater(stück) theatre (play) Tragödie tragedy zeichnen to draw zeigen to show Zeit time Zeitschrift magazine Zeitung newspaper Higher Abenteuer adventure aufführen to perform Page 38 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 3 Leisure and entertainment GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 39 of 52 © OCR 2009 Aufführung performance Bildschirm screen blasen to blow Blaskapelle brass band Bühne stage Fernbedienung remote control Garderobe cloakroom (theatre) Gerät implement/equipment Geräusch sound / quiet noise Medien (Massenmedien) media Moderator TV presenter Parkett stalls (theatre) passieren to happen Rang circle (theatre) Stimme voice Stimmung atmosphere Tagesschau TV evening news Unterhaltung entertainment Untertitel subtitle Vorstellung performance / introduction Werbung advertising Zuschauer audience / viewers Page 40 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Page 41 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 4: Travel and the wider world Holidays and exchanges Environmental, cultural and social issues Topic Area 5 Education and work Topic Area 4 Travel and the wider world Holidays and exchanges Foundation Affe monkey anders(wo) different (somewhere else) Anmeldung reception annehmen to accept anrufen to phone Aufenthalt stay Aufzug lift Ausflug excursion / trip ausfüllen to fill in (form) Auskunft information Ausland (ins / im) abroad Ausländer/in foreigner Aussicht view Auswahl choice/ selection Ausweis identity card / I.D Bär bear bedienen to serve Bedienung service (=in restaurant) Bett (Einzel / Doppel) bed (single/double) Bettwäsche bedlinen bedecken to cover bedeckt overcast bewölkt overcast donnern to thunder dunkel dark frieren to freeze Gewitter thunderstorm Hagel hail hageln to hail heiß hot heiter bright (= weather) Hitze heat kalt cold Klima climate kühl cool Löwe lion nass wet Nebel (nebelig) fog(gy)/ mist(y) Regen(mantel) rain(coat) Regenschirm umbrella regnen to rain regnerisch rainy Schauer shower (=weather) scheinen to shine Schnee snow schneien to snow schön beautiful / fine (= weather) sich sonnen to sunbathe Sonne sun Page 42 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work sonnig sunny Sturm / stürmisch storm(y) Wetter(bericht / vorhersage) weather (forecast) windig windy Wolke (wolkenlos) cloud(less) wolkig cloudy Blick look/ glance bleiben to stay / remain Broschüre brochure Campingplatz camping/ camp site Empfang(sdame) reception(ist) Ferien holiday Formular form Fotoapparat camera Fotograf/in photographer(‘s) Fundbüro lost property office Gast guest Gastgeber host Gasthaus / Gasthof pub Gaststätte restaurant / pub Gepäck luggage gültig valid Herbergseltern wardens (of youth hostel) Insel island Jugendherberge youth hostel Koffer suitcase Küste coast Lagerfeuer camp fire Land (auf dem / aufs) country (in the / to the) Landkarte map Landschaft countryside / scenery Luxus luxury Meer sea mitnehmen to take (with you) Ort place Pass (Reisepass) passport Pension (Vollpension) boarding house (full board) Personalausweis identity card Prospekt leaflet Reise journey (longer) Reisebüro travel agent’s Reisebus coach reisen to travel Reisende(r) traveller Reisescheck traveller’s cheque Reiseziel destination Sand(burg) sand (castle) Scheckheft cheque book Schlafsack sleeping bag Sonnenbrand sunburn Sonnencreme sun cream/ lotion Steward/ess air steward / hostess Strand beach suchen to look for Taschenlampe torch Taschenmesser pocket knife / pen-knife Überfahrt crossing (sea) übernachten to stay the night GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 43 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work Unterkunft accommodation unterwegs on the way Urlaub holiday Welle wave Wohnwagen caravan Zelt tent zelten to camp Zimmer (Einzel-, Doppel-, Familien-) room (single / double / family) Zimmer frei rooms available/ B & B Zimmermädchen maid Higher Aufenthaltsdauer length (of stay) Aufheiterungen bright periods austauschen to exchange entkommen to escape entscheiden to decide entspannen (sich) to relax feucht humid Fremdenführer tour guide freuen (sich) auf to look forward to freuen (sich) über to be pleased about Führung guided tour Kurs exchange rate lauwarm lukewarm Niederschlag precipitation Reiseführer tourist guide Rolltreppe escalator Rundgang / Rundfahrt guided tour Schatten shade Tropfen drop (e.g. water) veränderlich changeable verändern (sich) to change wechselhaft changeable Environmental, cultural and social issues Foundation Abfall(eimer) rubbish (bin/dustbin) Ampel traffic lights Angst haben to be frightened anspringen to start (cars) arm poor Blei lead Brand fire Erde earth Grad degree Grenze border herrlich splendid / wonderful Himmel sky hoch high Jahr(eszeit) year (season) jährlich annually Luft air Müll(tonne) rubbish/waste (dustbin) Nachteil disadvantage niedrig / tief low Page 44 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work Norden (nördlich) north (to the north) Osten (östlich) east (to the east) Panne breakdown Parkhaus multi-storey car park Parkplatz car park/ parking space Partei party (=political) Polizei(wache) police (station) Polizist/in policeman/woman Portemonnaie purse Rauch smoke rauchen to smoke Recht haben to be right Rechtsanwalt/anwältin lawyer Rede speech reden to talk Reifen tyre Reifenpanne puncture Reparatur repair reparieren to repair Scheinwerfer headlight Schornstein chimney Strom electricity Süden (südlich) south (to the south) Umwelt environment verbieten (verboten) to forbid (forbidden) vergessen to forget Vorteil advantage Welt world Westen west Zigarette cigarette Zoll customs Higher Abschleppwagen breakdown lorry abschliessen to lock up Altpapier recycled paper anzünden to light aufgeben to stop / give up e.g.smoking behandeln to treat Behandlung treatment behindert disabled beklagen (sich) to complain beleuchten to light up beschädigen to damage beschäftigt busy beschließen to decide beschweren (sich) to complain bessern (sich) to improve Besserung improvement / getting better bestätigen to confirm bestehen auf to insist on betrügen to deceive betrunken drunk beweisen to prove Dieb(stahl) thief (theft) dringend urgent drogensüchtig drug dependent drohen to threaten Einbrecher burglar GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 45 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work ertrinken to drown Flaschencontainer bottle bank Fleck stain / spot Gefängnis prison Geldstrafe fine (money) Gesetz law gestattet permitted Gewohnheit custom / habit globale Erwärmung global warming klagen to complain Kraftwerk power station löschen to extinguish / put out lösen to solve lügen to lie Missverständnis misunderstanding Mond moon Mord murder Not(ruf) emergency (phone call) Rat advice / council raten to advise / guess recyceln to recycle reduzieren to reduce Regel rule Regierung government Retten to save / rescue Rettung rescue Risiko risk Rollstuhl wheelchair schämen (sich) to be ashamed schulden to owe schuldig guilty / owing schützen to protect Sozialwohnung council house stehlen to steal sterben to die Tod death töten to kill trampen / per Anhalter fahren to hitch-hike Treibhauseffekt greenhouse effect überschwemmen to flood umkommen / ums Leben kommen to die umtauschen to exchange Unterschied difference verbrauchen to consume / use up verderben to spoil / pollute vergiften to poison Vergleich (vergleichen) comparison (to compare) verhaften to arrest verirren / verlaufen (sich) to lose one’s way/ to get lost vermeiden to avoid verschmutzen (Verschmutzung) to pollute (pollution) verschwenden to waste verschwinden to disappear versichern (Versicherung) to insure (insurance) verstecken to hide wegwerfen to throw away wieder verwerten to recycle zerstören to destroy Zeuge witness Page 46 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work Topic Area 5: Education and work School life in the UK and in the target language country or community Work experience, future study and jobs, working abroad GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 47 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work Topic Area 5 Education and work School life in the UK and in the target language country or community Foundation Abitur (Abiturient/in) A level exam (A level student) Aufgabe exercise/ task aufhören to stop (doing something) aufmachen to open aufräumen to tidy /clear up /away aufpassen to pay attention Aula school hall ausmachen to turn off Doppelstunde double period Gebäude building Gespräch conversation Gruppe group Haus(aufgaben/arbeit) home(work/housework) Hause (zu / nach) home (at / going) Hausmeister/in caretaker Haustür front door Heft exercise book interessant interesting interessieren (sich) für to be interested in Kind(heit) child(hood) Klasse (zweiter Klasse) class (2nd class) Klassenarbeit test / assessment Klassenkamarad/in classmate Klassenzimmer classroom kompliziert complicated korrigieren to correct / mark Labor laboratory sich langweilen to be bored langweilig boring Lärm noise (loud) lehren to teach Lehrer/in teacher Lehrling (Lehre) apprentice (-ship) leicht light (weight) / easy lernen to learn lesen to read Lesen reading Note mark nötig necessary notwendig necessary nützlich useful nutzlos useless Oberstufe sixth form Pause (Mittagspause) break (lunch) Platz seat / room / square / court / pitch prüfen to test / examine / check Prüfung / Examen examination Punkt point (place / score / idea); full stop pünktlich punctual / on time richtig right / correct Page 48 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work Saal / Halle hall (large room / concert) schreiben to write Schreibpapier writing paper Schreibwarengeschäft stationer's Schuldirektor/in head teacher Schule school Schüler/in pupil Schüleraustausch school exchange Schulhof school playground Schulstunde lesson schwach weak / poor (work) schweigen to be silent / to say nothing schwer hard / difficult schwierig difficult Seite page / side Semester / Trimester term stimmt (das stimmt) that's right Student/in student studieren to study Stunde hour Stundenplan timetable (school) Tafel board (black / white) Tag day Tagebuch diary (account) Unterricht lessons unterrichten to teach Versuch experiment / attempt versuchen to try (to do s.th) Wahl(fach) choice (option subject) wählen to choose wissen to know (facts) Woche week Wochenende weekend Wort word zuhören to listen to Bleistift pencil Etui pencil case Filzstift felt tip pen füllen to fill Füller fountain pen Gummi rubber Kugelschreiber / Kuli biro / ball point pen Lineal ruler Notizbuch note book Papier(e) paper(s) / documents Radiergummi rubber (=eraser) Sache(n) thing (things / belongings) Schere scissors Stift something to write with Stück piece (paper / cake etc) Taschenrechner calculator Taschentuch handkerchief Wörterbuch dictionary Zettel note / piece of paper Chemie chemistry Erdkunde geography Fach (Wahlfach) subject (option) GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 49 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work Fremdsprache language (foreign) GCSE-Prüfungen GCSE exams Geschichte history Hauswirtschaftslehre home economics Informatik I.T. Mathe(matik) maths Naturwissenschaften science Pflichtfach compulsory subject Physik physics Religion R.E Technologie CDT Turnen P.E Turnhalle gymnasium Berufsschule technical college Gesamtschule comprehensive school Grundschule primary school Gymnasium grammar school Hauptschule secondary modern school Internat boarding school Kindergarten nursery school Privatschule private school Realschule secondary technical school Universität /Uni college / university Higher Aufsatz essay Belohnung reward Bemerken to notice benehmen (sich) to behave beobachten to watch / observe Betriebswirtschaft business studies Bildung education brav well behaved Brett (schwarzes) notice board durchfallen to fail (exam) einreichen to hand in falten to fold Fortschritt(e) progress Gang corridor / gear herausfinden to find out / learn herunterladen to (down)load kleben to stick loben to praise lohnen (sich) to be worthwhile mangelhaft poor meinen to mean / think mündlich oral nachdenken to think over / reflect nachsitzen müssen to be kept in rechnen to calculate Rolle rôle schaffen to suceed / achieve schriftlich in writing Schulzeugnis school report sitzen bleiben to repeat the year Sozialkunde social science stören to disturb / interrupt Page 50 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work übersetzen to translate Übersetzung translation Umfrage / Meinungsumfrage survey verbessern to correct / improve Versammlung meeting / school assembly Vokabeln vocabulary zählen to count Work experience, future study and jobs, working abroad Foundation Aktentasche briefcase am Apparat speaking! (on telephone) Anzeige advertisement Arbeit work arbeiten to work Arbeiter/in worker Ausbildung training ausbilden to train Bericht report Beruf profession Betriebspraktikum work experience Brieftasche wallet Büro office Fabrik factory Feierabend end of work day Feiertag public holiday Firma / Betrieb firm / company Ganztagsstelle full time job Gehalt salary / pay Geld(tasche) money (purse) Kasse till / cash desk Kleingeld change (small) Konto account (bank) Kreditkarte credit card Kunde / Kundin customer Lohn wages Münze coin Pfund pound (= sterling/ weight) Reklame advert Schein (e.g. 50-Euro-Schein) note (e.g. 50 euros) Stelle place / job Taschengeld pocket money Teilzeitarbeit part time work Telefonbuch telephone directory Telefonzelle telephone box Termin appointment Theke counter Trinkgeld tip (money) Umschlag envelope unterschreiben to sign Unterschrift signature verdienen to earn Vorwahl dialling code weiter machen to continue / carry on (doing s.th) Zukunft future GCSE German General Vocabulary List Page 51 of 52 © OCR 2009 Topic Area 5 Education and work Page 52 of 52 GCSE German General Vocabulary List © OCR 2009 arbeitslos unemployed Armee army Arzt / Ärztin doctor Babysitten babysitting babysitten to baby sit Beamte / Beamtin civil servant / official Briefträger/in postman / woman Chef/in boss Elektriker electrician Feuerwehr fire brigade Feuerwehrmann/frau fireman / woman Frisör / Friseuse hairdresser Geschäftsmann/frau businessman / woman Händler(in) shopkeeper Ingenieur/in engineer Kassierer(in) cashier Kellner(in) waiter/waitress Klempner/in plumber Koch / Köchin cook / chef kochen to cook Künstler/in artist Laden(besitzer) shop (owner / keeper) Leiter manager / leader Leiter ladder Mauer wall (exterior) Maurer builder Mechaniker/in mechanic Programmierer/in computer programmer Sekretär/in secretary Soldat soldier Tierarzt/ärztin vet Verkäufer/in sales assistant Higher Arbeitgeber employer Arbeitnehmer employee Arbeitsamt job centre Arbeitslosigkeit unemployment Berufsberatung careers advice bewerben (sich) to apply for a job Bewerbungsgespräch job interview Gelegenheit opportunity / chance gelingen to succeed Hochschulabschluß degree (university) Jura law Lebenslauf CV leisten to achieve Leistung achievement Matrose / Seemann sailor Pension (in Pension gehen) (to retire) Personal staff qualifiziert qualified Quittung receipt Rente pension tippen to type Universitätsabschluss/grad degree (university) vorhaben to intend, to plan to Vorschlag suggestion Vorstellungsgespräch job interview INTRODUCTION TO THE DICTIONARY (2 pages) STUDENT COMPLETED PAGE(S) Older students, text only (1 page) Younger students, drawings and text (2 pages) OBJECTS Fixtures (3 pages) Board Chair Computer: keyboard, monitor, mouse Desk Door Phone Sink: faucet, handle, soap bottle Table Trash can Water Fountain Materials for the classroom (2 pages) Backpack Book (closed) Calculator Folder Notebook Paper Pen Pencil Other materials (1 page) Ball Jacket (hood, sleeve, pocket) PLACES (3 pages) Art Room Bathroom (sink, toilet, toilet paper) Bus Cafeteria Classroom Computer Lab Gym Hallway Library Music Room Nurse’s Office Outside (grass, sidewalk, tree) Playground Principal’s Office Stairs Bilingual Picture Dictionary Table of Contents Developed by J.D. Alexander 2007 PEOPLE The Body (2 pages) Ankle Arm Back Chest Elbow Face ( cheek, ear, eyebrow, glasses, lip, nose, teeth, throat, tongue) Finger Foot Hair Hand Head Heel Hip Knee Leg Mouth Neck Shoulder Shin Stomach Thigh Thumb Toes Waist Wrist Feelings (3 pages) Cold Confused Happy Hot Hungry Mad Scared Sleepy Surprised Thirsty Worried Family (2 pages) Aunt Baby Brother Cousin Daughter Father Grandfather Bilingual Picture Dictionary Table of Contents Developed by J.D. Alexander 2007 Grandmother Mother Nephew Niece Sister Son Uncle VERBS (6 pages) Count Finish Line Up Listen Look Point Raise your hand Read Share Sit (in a chair, on the floor) Stop Talk Think Walk Wash hands Write TEXT ONLY SECTIONS (7 pages) Asking Questions A few useful phrases Numbers Calendar Cognates and False Cognates High Frequency Verbs BIBILIOGRAPHY (Image Credits) Introduction Developed by J.D. Alexander 2007 Why a picture dictionary? When two people do not share a spoken language, it is often still possible to communicate through gesture and pictures. As a tutor, I often find myself drawing pictures to help explain show my students what I mean. When words are insufficient, it seems natural to use images to clarify meaning—that’s why we have blueprints for building houses and photographs of plants in seed catalogs instead of just descriptions. When a friend travels to a place we’ve never been, of course we want to hear the stories, but we appreciate pictures as a means of conveying what words cannot (yes, the water was that blue). But drawing on the spur of the moment has some major limitations. One doesn’t always have the proper materials (and it is tricky to draw “plum” without it being mistaken for “peach” if you don’t have crayons or colored pencils and “fuzzy” isn’t in the shared vocabulary yet). Some people can’t draw realistically enough for this purpose—especially when they want to communicate quickly. So, when I asked an administrator what her teachers needed to better help their students who speak Spanish and she told me that a picture dictionary would be helpful, I thought that made perfect sense. I actually thought that the need for such a thing was so obvious that there would already be a good one readily available. There are many fine picture dictionaries, but they are not usually bilingual. The bilingual dictionaries that do exist generally aren’t illustrated. Or the text and the illustrations aren’t well integrated, or the book is cumbersome to use. Certainly I was not able to find one that was edited to include only words that would be most relevant in a school setting, freely available via the Internet, and easy to customize. That is what I have tried here to create. Research as well as anecdotal evidence supports the idea that this tool could be useful in the classroom. In their article “What We Know about Effective Instructional Practices for English-Language Learners” Gersten and Baker (2000) identified the practice of “building and using vocabulary as a curricular anchor” and “using visuals to reinforce concepts and vocabulary” as the top two of their five specific instructional variables that can be “critical components for instruction.” Particularly in regards to using visuals, they write: Two of the intervention studies and several of the observational studies noted that the use of visuals during instruction increased learning… Rousseau et al. (1993) used visuals for teaching vocabulary (i.e., words written on the board and the use of pictures), and Saunders et al. (1998) systematically incorporated visuals for teaching reading and language arts. Because the spoken word is fleeting, visual aids such as graphic organizers, concept and story maps, and word banks give students a concrete system to process, reflect on, and integrate information…. Implementation of even simple techniques, such as writing key words on the board or flip chart and discussing them, can enhance meaningful Englishlanguage development and comprehension. The professional work groups concurred that even the simplest integration of visuals is drastically underutilized (Gersten & Baker, 2000). About the words included The list of words that appear in this dictionary is the result of discussions with many educators (general classroom, ESL, special education, school administrators, college professors, etc.) and students about what would be most useful. Having only a limited amount of time in the semester, I tried to create a relatively short list of high utility words tailored to the school setting. I then chose words from this list that would be possible to Introduction Developed by J.D. Alexander 2007 illustrate clearly. “To know” is something that would undoubtedly be useful in a school setting, and it is one of the 12 verbs Biber and Conrad (2001) found to be most frequently occurring in the English language (more than 1,000x per 1,000,000 words). Unfortunately, it is difficult to clearly illustrate an abstract concept like “to know.” I have sorted the words into categories that I hope will make intuitive sense to others as well as myself. Each category is stored as a separate document on the CD, so that users can select as many or as few as they would like to print. Within each category, I have arranged the entries alphabetically according to the English translation. I choose to alphabetize on the basis of the English rather than the Spanish so that, if this dictionary proves useful enough for someone to want to translate it (into Korean? Chinese?) for the use of other English language learners that can be done without rearranging the order of the entries. I have done my typing throughout the dictionary in text boxes so, again, it should be easy to edit. I have put each entry in the target language (English) in bold type, the entry in Spanish in italics, and used smaller, plain type to show the use of the words in a sentence, if I could think of a short, good one. About the images Since this dictionary’s first purpose is to serve Latino students, as much as possible I have tried to use Latino people as models for the illustration of verbs, family relationships, etc. This was more difficult than one might imagine. When I was not able to find Latino models willing to be photographed, I made use of flickr.com to search for images, often using Spanish search terms in the hopes of finding photographs of and by Latinos. If I was not able to do find such images, and because this dictionary may be used for other English Language Learners, I tried to use a variety of diverse models. One of the great things about the United States of America is our diversity—not everyone looks or speaks or thinks alike. And so, partially out of desperation to illustrate certain concepts, but mostly because we do wish to be part of a diverse community, my very patient husband is pictured twice, and my hands and body are in here, too. Possible additions There are many other words that I would have liked to illustrate, if I had had more time. At the beginning of this project I did not imagine that it would take nearly so long as it did to find and edit each image. “Del dicho al hecho, hay mucho trecho” (from the word to the deed, there is a long trip). I think it might be useful to illustrate the feeling “ill,” the object-noun “locker,” as well as various foods, and school personnel such as “bus driver” “custodian,” “principal,” etc, and several other verbs including “to have,” to need,” and “to wait.” I hope that these entries and others may be added at a later date. Developed by J.D. Alexander 2007 Student Pages paginas sobre el estudiante SPANISH PRONUNCIATION GUIDE GUÍA DE PRONUNCIACIÓN EN ESPAÑOL .................................................... 130 BASICS BASES ............................................................................................................... 131 COLORS COLORES ......................................................................................................... 131 DAYS OF THE WEEK DÍAS DE LA SEMANA ............................................................................... 131 DIRECTIONS DIRECCIONES .......................................................................................... 131 GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES ......................................................................... 132 GREETINGS AND FAREWELLS SALUDOS Y DESPEDIDAS ...................................................................... 132 HOUSEHOLD OBJECTS OBJETOS CASEROS ............................................................................... 133 MEALS COMIDAS .................................................................................................. 133 MONTHS OF THE YEAR MESES DEL AÑO ..................................................................................... 134 NUMBERS (COUNT) NÚMEROS (CONTEO) .............................................................................. 134 NUMBERS (SEQUENCE) NÚMEROS (SECUENCIA) ........................................................................ 135 OFFICIAL U.S. HOLIDAYS DÍAS FESTIVOS OFICIALES DE EE.UU. ................................................. 135 SAFETY AND HEALTH – BASIC EXPRESSIONS SEGURIDAD Y SALUD – EXPRESIONES BÁSICAS .............................. 136 TELLING TIME INDICANDO LA HORA .............................................................................. 136 WEATHER TIEMPO ..................................................................................................... 137 WORK TITLES, PROFESSIONS, RELATIONSHIPS TÍTULOS DEL TRABAJO, PROFESIONES, FAMILIARES ...................... 137 AGRICULTURE AND NURSERY AGRICULTURA Y VIVEROS ............................................................................. 142 FIELD CROPS CULTIVO EXTENSIVO .............................................................................. 142 FISHERY PRODUCTS PRODUCTOS DE PESCA ......................................................................... 142 FRUITS, NUTS & BERRIES FRUTAS, NUECES Y MORAS .................................................................. 143 GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES ......................................................................... 143 HORTICULTURE & SPECIALTY PRODUCTS HORTICULTURA Y PRODUCTOS ESPECIALIZADOS ........................... 156 IRRIGATION IRRIGACIÓN ............................................................................................. 157 IRRIGATION PIPE PIPA DE IRRIGACIÓN .............................................................................. 157 LIVESTOCK & POULTRY GANADO Y AVE ........................................................................................ 158 MACHINERY / EQUIPMENT MAQUINARIA / EQUIPO ........................................................................... 158 OTHER AGRICULTURE PRODUCTS OTROS PRODUCTOS AGRÍCOLAS ........................................................ 159 PEOPLE GENTE ...................................................................................................... 162 TOOLS HERRAMIENTA ......................................................................................... 163 VEGETABLE & TRUCK CROPS VERDURAS Y PRODUCTOS CAMIONEROS .......................................... 164 VERBS VERBOS .................................................................................................... 164 COMMON DISORDERS AND DISEASES DESORDENES Y ENFERMEDIDES COMUNES ............................................. 170 COMMON OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES LESIONES OCUPACIONALES COMUNES ..................................................... 175 NATURE OF INJURIES GENERO DE LESIONES .......................................................................... 175 TYPES OF ACCIDENTS TIPOS DE ACCIDENTES .......................................................................... 176 CONSTRUCTION CONSTRUCCIÓN ............................................................................................. 178 GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES ......................................................................... 178 MACHINES MÁQUINAS ................................................................................................ 178 MATERIALS MATERIALES ............................................................................................ 179 PEOPLE GENTE ...................................................................................................... 185 RESIDENTIAL RESIDENCIAL ........................................................................................... 185 TOOLS/EQUIPMENT/MACHINERY/HARDWARE HERRAMIENTA/EQUIPO/MAQUINARIA/HERRAJES ............................. 187 VERBS VERBOS .................................................................................................... 197 EMERGENCY EMERGENCIA ................................................................................................... 200 129 ERGONOMICS ERGONOMÍA .................................................................................................... 201 ANATOMY ANATOMÍA ................................................................................................ 201 ILLNESSES ENFERMEDADES ..................................................................................... 201 INJURIES LESIONES ................................................................................................. 201 VERBS VERBOS .................................................................................................... 201 OR-OSHA LANGUAGE IDIOMA DE OR-OSHA ...................................................................................... 202 GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES ......................................................................... 202 RULES NORMAS ................................................................................................... 205 RESTAURANT RESTAURANTE ................................................................................................ 206 FOOD COMIDA .................................................................................................... 206 GENERAL ITEMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES ......................................................................... 208 VERBS VERBOS .................................................................................................... 210 STANDARDS NORMAS ........................................................................................................... 213 BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS PATÓGENOS SANGUÍNEOS ................................................................... 213 LOCKOUT TAGOUT CIERRE Y ETIQUETADO ......................................................................... 214 MACHINE GUARDING AND MECHANICAL TERMS PROTECTORES DE MAQUINARIA Y TÉRMINOS MECÁNICOS ........... 217 PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT EQUIPO PROTECTIVO PERSONAL ........................................................ 220 BODY CUERPO ........................................................................................... 220 EARS OÍDOS ............................................................................................... 220 EYES OJOS ................................................................................................. 220 FACE/HEAD CARA/CABEZA ................................................................................. 220 FALL PROTECTION PROTECCIÓN ANTICAIDAS ............................................................ 221 FEET/LEGS PIES/PIERNAS .................................................................................. 223 GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES ................................................................. 223 HANDS/ARMS MANOS/BRAZOS .............................................................................. 225 RESPIRATORS RESPIRADORES .............................................................................. 226 TOOLS & MORE HERRAMIENTA Y DEMÁS ............................................................................... 229 WORK ACTIONS AND GENERAL VERBS ACCIONES DEL TRABAJO Y VERBOS GENERALES .................................... 241 WORKPLACE HAZARDS PELIGROS OCUPACIONALES ........................................................................ 252 CHEMICALS QUÍMICOS ................................................................................................. 252 AIR CONTAMINANTS CONTAMINANTES AÉREOS ........................................................... 252 HERBICIDES HERBICIDAS ..................................................................................... 259 INSECTICIDES PLAGUICIDAS .................................................................................. 259 ORGANOPHOSPHATE INSECTICIDES PLAGUICIDAS ORGANOFOSFORADOS ........................................ 259 HIGHLY TOXIC ALTAMENTE TÓXICOS ............................................................ 259 MODERATELY TOXIC MODERADAMENTE TÓXICOS ................................................ 260 METALS METALES .................................................................................................. 261 130 131 SPANISH PRONUNCIATION GUIDE GUÍA DE PRONUNCIACIÓN EN ESPAÑOL Letter Approximate pronunciation A ah as in father B and V represent the same sound as in English but without the explosiveness C there are two main pronunciations C before e, i, s and in septum (centro) C before a, o, u k as in cancer (capitán) CH ch as in champ D there are two main pronunciations D between vowel th as in weather (medio) D after n, l like d in dart (donde) E eh as in element F like the English f in for G there are two main pronunciations G before e, i harsher than h in hemoglobin Gue, Gui hard g as in guest H always silent as in hour I ee as in seen J more forcefully than in ham K as in English L as in English LL y as in yes M as in English N as in English but with tip of tongue touching the back of the upper front teeth Ñ ny as in canyon O oh as in spoke P slightly less explosive than the English p Q always as k R when beginning a word, roll the r more than in diarrhea RR same as when beginning a word S as in English T as in English but with tip of tongue touching the back of the upper front teeth U oo as in food V see B W as in English X ks, gs as in oxygen, excellent Y same as in y in yes Y by itself or at the end of word like e in me Z as s in soft The definite article “the” in Spanish has two forms depending on the gender of the noun. For feminine nouns the definite article is “la” and “el” for masculine nouns. Throughout this dictionary, nouns will be identified with (f.) and (m.) respectively. EXAMPLES: the house casa (f.) = la casa the tree arbol (m.) = el arbol 132 BASICS – BASES COLORS COLORES black negro blue azul brown café green verde navy blue azul marino orange anaranjado purple morado red rojo tan café claro violet violeta white blanco yellow amarillo DAYS OF THE WEEK DÍAS DE LA SEMANA Sunday Domingo Monday Lunes Tuesday Martes Wednesday Miércoles Thursday Jueves Friday Viernes Saturday Sábado DIRECTIONS DIRECCIONES down abajo go straight siga derecho is that the way? ¿ese es el camino? is this the way? ¿este es el camino? please point indique por favor to the east al oriente / al este to the north al norte to the south al sur to the west al poniente / al oeste turn left de vuelta a la izquierda turn right de vuelta a la derecha up arriba where are the workers? ¿donde están los trabajadores? where is the boss? ¿donde esta el patrón? where is the office? ¿donde esta la oficina? where is the supervisor? ¿donde esta el supervisor? 133 GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES absolutely absolutamente all right esta bien can you tell me? ¿puede usted decirme? do you speak English? ¿habla usted inglés? do you speak Spanish? ¿habla usted español? don´t bother no se moleste don’t bother me no me moleste excuse me perdone how do you say? ¿como se dice? I am looking for busco I am sorry lo siento I am very sorry lo siento mucho I do not understand no comprendo I don´t think so creo que no I hope so espero que sí I need an interpreter necesito un intérprete I need it for tomorrow lo necesito para mañana I need it in one hour lo necesito en una hora I need it now lo necesito ahora I need it tomorrow lo necesito mañana I need to know necesito saber I speak a little English hablo inglés un poco I speak a little Spanish hablo español un poco I think so creo que sí I would like to know quisiera saber it´s no trouble no es molestia no no perhaps tal vez please por favor please repeat repitalo por favor please write it down escribalo por favor speak more slowly please hable más despacio por favor thank you gracias true? right? ¿verdad? what do you wish? ¿que desea usted? what is this called in English? ¿cómo se llama esto en inglés? what is this called in Spanish? ¿cómo se llama esto en español? what language do you speak? ¿cual idioma habla usted? yes sí you are very kind usted es muy amable you´re welcome de nada GREETINGS AND FAREWELLS SALUDOS Y DESPEDIDAS congratulations felicidades good afternoon buenas tardes good evening buenas noches good luck buena suerte good night buenas noches good morning buenos días goodbye adiós have a good time diviertanse hello hola see you later hasta luego / hasta la vista see you tomorrow hasta mañana 134 HOUSEHOLD OBJECTS OBJETOS CASEROS armoire armario (m.) bed cama (f.) blanket cobija (f.) / frazada (f.) bookcase librero (m.) chair silla (f.) chest of drawers cómoda (f.) comb peine (m.) door puerta (f.) doorbell timbre / campana (m.) hairbrush cepillo (m.) lamp lámpara (f.) mirror espejo (m.) radio radio (f.) sheets sábanas (f.) soap jabón (m.) sofa sofá (m.) stereo estereo (m.) table mesa (f.) telephone teléfono (m.) television televisión (f.) toilet paper papel de baño (m.) toothbrush cepillo de dientes (m.) towel toalla (f.) MEALS COMIDAS apple manzana (f.) banana plátano (m.) beef res (f.) bread pan (m.) breakfast desayuno (m.) butter mantequilla (f.) cheese queso (m.) chicken pollo (m.) coffee café (m.) cookie galleta (f.) cream crema (f.) cup taza (f.) dinner cena (f.) fork tenedor (m.) frying pan sartén (m.) glass vaso (m.) knife cuchillo (m.) lunch almuerzo (m.) / comida (f.) meat carne (f.) milk leche (f.) napkin servilleta (f.) onion cebolla (f.) orange naranja (f.) pepper pimienta (f.) plate plato (m.) pork puerco (m.) pot olla (f.) salt sal (f.) spoon cuchara (f.) sugar azúcar (m.) tea te (m.) tomato jitomate (m.) 135 MONTHS OF THE YEAR MESES DEL AÑO January Enero February Febrero March Marzo April Abril May Mayo June Junio July Julio August Agosto September Septiembre October Octubre November Noviembre December Diciembre NUMBERS (COUNT) NÚMEROS (CONTEO) one uno two dos three tres four cuatro five cinco six seis seven siete eight ocho nine nueve ten diez eleven once twelve doce thirteen trece fourteen catorce fifteen quince sixteen dieciséis seventeen diecisiete eighteen dieciocho nineteen diecinueve twenty veinte twenty-one veintiuno twenty-two, etc. veintidós, etc. thirty treinta thirty-one treinta y uno thirty-two, etc. treinta y dos, etc. forty cuarenta forty-one cuarenta y uno forty-two, etc. cuarenta y dos, etc. fifty cincuenta sixty sesenta seventy setenta eighty ochenta ninety noventa hundred cien two hundred doscientos three hundred trecientos four hundred cuatrocientos five hundred quinientos six hundred seiscientos seven hundred setecientos eight hundred ochocientos nine hundred novecientos one thousand mil five thousand cinco mil ten thousand diez mil one hundred thousand cien mil million millón billion billón 136 NUMBERS (SEQUENCE) NÚMEROS (SECUENCIA) first primero second segundo third tercero fourth cuarto fifth quinto sixth sexto seventh séptimo eighth octavo ninth noveno tenth décimo eleventh décimo primero twelfth etc. décimo segundo twentieth vigésimo twenty-first vigésimo primero twenty-second, etc vigésimo segundo, etc. thirtieth trigésimo / treintavo fortieth cuadragésimo / cuarentavo fiftieth quincuagésimo / cincuentavo sixtieth sexagésimo / sesentavo seventieth septuagésimo / setentavo eightieth octogésimo / ochentavo ninetieth nonagésimo / noventavo hundredth centésimo five hundredth quingentésimo thousandth milésimo OFFICIAL U.S. HOLIDAYS DÍAS FESTIVOS OFICIALES DE EE.UU. New Year (January 1) Año Nuevo (1 de enero) Martin Luther King Jr. (third Monday in January) Martin Luther King Jr. (tercer lunes de enero) President´s Day (third Monday in February) Día de los Presidentes (tercer lunes de febrero) Memorial Day (last Monday in May) Día de Conmemoración a los Caídos (último lunes de mayo) Independence Day (July 4) Día de la Independencia (4 de julio) Labor Day (first Monday in September) Día del Trabajo (primer lunes de septiembre) Veteran´s Day (second Monday in November) Día de Conmemoración a los Veteranos de Guerra (segundo lunes de noviembre) Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November) Día de Gracias (cuarto jueves de noviembre) Christmas Day (December 25) Día de Navidad (25 de diciembre) 137 SAFETY AND HEALTH – BASIC EXPRESSIONS SEGURIDAD Y SALUD – EXPRESIONES BÁSICAS change room vestuario (m.) check for holes in the gloves busque agujeros en los guantes check that the container is closed asegúrese que este cerrado el recipiente check that the guard is on asegúrese que este puesto el protector check the brakes asegúrese que sirvan los frenos check the windshield wipers asegúrese que sirvan los limpiabrisas do it like this hágalo así get down bájese get someone to help you consiga a alguien que le ayude go siga I need training necesito adiestramiento job analysis análisis del trabajo job hazard analysis análisis de los riesgos del trabajo locker room vestuario (m.) look for hazards busque peligros put on your ______ (gloves, hardhat, ear plugs etc.) pongase sus ______ (guantes, casco, tapones de oídos, etc.) show me how this is operated enséñeme como usa esto stop alto tell me how this is operated dígame como se usa esto this is dangerous esto es peligroso this is hazardous esto es riesgoso this is not safe esto no es seguro this is not the right procedure esto no es la manera correcta this is the company´s safety policy esta es la política de seguridad de la compañía this is too bulky to carry alone esto es demasiado bultoso para cargarlo solo this is too heavy to carry alone esto es demasiado pesado para cargarlo solo tie it off amárrelo tie yourself off amárrese time clock reloj (m.) registrador wash your hands before using the rest room lávese las manos antes de usar el baño wash your family´s clothes separately from your work clothes lave la ropa de la familia separado de la ropa de trabajo we can prevent accidents podemos prevenir accidentes we have training at _____ (8:30 AM, 2:00 PM, etc.) tenemos adiestramiento a las ______(8:30 AM, 2:00 PM) we have training today tenemos adiestramiento hoy we have training tomorrow tenemos adiestramiento mañana we need to follow the procedure necesitamos seguir la manera we need to train you necesitamos adiestrarlo TELLING TIME INDICANDO LA HORA 0:15 (fifteen) 0:15 (quince) 0:30 (thirty) 0:30 (treinta) 0:45 (forty-five) 0:45 (cuarenta y cinco) 4:45 PM 4:45 PM 7:00 AM 7:00 AM afternoon tarde (f.) at daybreak en la madrugada (f.) at night en la noche (f.) be here at six fifteen in the morning esté aquí a las seis y quince de la mañana be there at three in the afternoon esté allá a las tres de la tarde dawn amanecer (m.) eight o´clock in the morning a las ocho de la mañana four forty-five in the afternoon a las cuatro y cuarenta y cinco de la tarde in the afternoon en la tarde (f.) in the morning en la mañana (f.) midnight medianoche (f.) morning mañana (f.) night noche (f.) noon mediodía (m.) sunset puesta (f.) del sol (m.) ten thirty at night diez y media de la noche 138 WEATHER TIEMPO clear despejado cloudy nublado dry seco freezing congelando freezing rain lluvia (f.) congelada frozen congelado hail granizo (m.) hailing granizando heat calor (m.) hot caliente hurricane huracán (m.) ice hielo (m.) iced enhielado lighting relámpago (m.) partly cloudy nubes (f.) despejadas rain lluvia (f.) rain storm aguacero rainy lluvioso slip resbalar slippery resbaloso snow nieve (f.) snowing nevando storm tormenta (f.) sun sol (m.) sunny soleado thunder trueno (m.) tornado torbellino (m.) wet mojado WORK TITLES, PROFESSIONS, RELATIONSHIPS TÍTULOS DEL TRABAJO, PROFESIONES, FAMILIARES academic académico (a) accountant contador (a) acrobat acróbata actor actor (actriz) adjuster ajustador (a) administrative assistant asistente administrativo (a) administrator administrador (a) adolescent adolecente (a) agent agente (a) analyst analista (a) anesthesiologist anestesiólogo (a) animator animador (a) anthropologist antropólogo (a) appraiser perito apprentice aprendiz archeologist arqueólogo (a) architect arquitecto archivist archivador (a) assistant manager gerente asistente aunt tía (f.) author autor (a) aviation engineer ingeniero (a) de aviación barber peluquero (a) beginner principiante / aprendiz biologist biólogo (a) blacksmith herrero (a) borer perforador (a) boss patrón (a) bricklayer albañil bridge engineer ingeniero (a) de puentes brother hermano (m.) builder constructor (a) businessman comerciante / negociante businesswoman comerciante / negociante butcher carnicero (a) buyer comprador (a) carpenter carpintero (a) carpet installer alfombrista civil engineer ingeniero (a) civil client cliente 139 clown payaso (a) co-worker (male) compañero (a) del trabajo cobbler zapatero (a) coffee maker cafetero (a) competitor competidor (a) consumer consumidor (a) cook cocinero (a) cousin prima (a) cowboy vaquero cowgirl vaquera crane driver operador de grúa dairy farmer ranchero (a) productor (a) de leche dam engineer ingeniero (a) de presas dancer danzante dentist dentista director director (a) disabled ménoshabil doctor doctor (a) / médico (a) draftsman dibujante driver chofer drycleaner lavandero (a) en seco / tintorero (a) dyer tintorero (a) economist economista electrical engineer ingeniero (a) de electricidad electrician electricista electronics engineer ingeniero (a) de electrónica emergency medical technician técnico (a) médico de emergencia enemy enemigo (a) excavator excavador (a) expert experto (a) exporter exportador (a) farm worker obrero (a) agrícola farmer granjero (a) farmer (working the land) labrador (a) father padre / papá firefighter bombero fisherman pescador (a) flight attendant azafata foreman capataz / mayordomo framer carpintero (a) friend amigo (a) fruit picker recolector (a) de fruta (f.) gambler apostante gamekeeper guardabosque gardener jardinero (a) general contractor contratista principal general manager gerente general geologist geólogo (a) glazier vidriero (a) governor gobernador (a) grandfather abuelo grandmother abuela grocer abarrotero (a) guide guía gunsmith armero (a) hand laborer obrero (a) hardware dealer ferretero (a) harvester cosechador (a) hauler transportista healer curandero (a) / aliviador (a) health manager gerente de salud helper ayudante hoer arador (a) hotelier hotelero (a) hourly worker jornalero (a) (por hora) hunter cazador (a) importer importador (a) independent contractor contratista independiente 140 instructor instructor (a) ironworker herrero (a) jester bromista jockey jinete joiner carpintero (a) / ebanista joker bromista judge juez juggler malabarista jumper saltador (a) junker desguazador (a) juror jurado kicker chutador / pateador killer asesino (a) labor contractor contratista laborer trabajador (a) lagger rezagado (a) landholder terrateniente landlord propietario (a) / dueño (a) landowner terrateniente / dueño (a) lapidary lapidario (a) latecomer rezagado (a) lathe operator tornero (a) launcher lanzador (a) launderer lavandero (a) law-abiding respetuoso (a) de las leyes lawbreaker infractor (a) de la ley lawyer abogado leader líder / jefe (a) / dirigente lecturer profesor (a) legislator legislador (a) lender prestamista lessee inquilino (a) / arrendatario (a) leveler nivelador (a) liar mentiroso (a) licensee titular de una licencia (f.) licensor entidad o persona que concede licencia (f.) lineman (electrical) instalador (a) de lineas (f.) eléctricas lineman (railroad) guardavía linguist lingüista liquidator liquidador (a) / síndico lithographer litógrafo (a) litterbug persona que tira basura (f.) en vías (f.) públicas loader cargador (a) lobbyist persona que ejerce presión locksmith cerrajero (a) lodger huésped / inquilino (a) logger leñador (a) loiterer ocioso (a) lookout centinela / guardia looter saqueador (a) loser perdedor (a) lumberer leñador (a) machinist mecánico / maquinista madam señora magician mago (a) man hombre manager gerente 141 manicurist manicurista manipulator manipulador (a) manufacturer fabricante map maker cartógrafo marble cutter marmolista marker marcador (a) marketeer comerciante marksman tirador (a) mason albañil master maestro (a) master builder maestro (a) de obras (f.) master mason maestro (a) de albañilería mathematician matemático (a) measurer medidor mechanic mecánico mechanical engineer ingeniero (a) mecánico meddler entrometido (a) mediator mediador medic médico (a) / doctor (a) member miembro (a) mentor mentor mercantilist mercantilista merchant comerciante / negociante metallurgist metalúrgico middleman intermediario (a) migrant worker trabajador migratorio (a) militant combatiente miner minero (a) mineralogist mineralogista mining engineer ingeniero de minas (f.) minister (government) ministro minister (religion) ministro de la iglesia (f.) model modelo mother madre / mamá musician músico nuclear engineer ingeniero (a) nuclear nurse enfermero (a) officer oficial operator operador (a) owner dueño (a) packer empacador (a) painter pintor (a) pharmacist farmacéutico photographer fotógrafo (a) picker recolector (a) pieceworker trabajador (a) por pieza (f.) pilot piloto plasterer yesero player jugador (a) plumber plomero / fontanero poet poeta police policía postal worker cartero potter alfarero (a) president presidente (a) priest sacerdote (a) printer impresor prospector cateador (a) psychiatrist psiquiatra psychologist psicólogo (a) referee árbitro renter inquilino (a) retailer menudista road engineer ingeniero (a) de caminos (m.) roofer techador (a) safety manager gerente de seguridad (f.) sailor marinero (a) salaried asalariado (a) sales manager gerente de ventas (f.) 142 sawyer aserrador scientist científico (a) secretary secretario (a) seller vendedor (a) service manager gerente de ventas (f.) sharpener afilador shopkeeper tendero (a) / vendedor (a) sir señor sister hermana soldier soldado stockholder accionista stone mason cantero stonecutter picapedrero street seller vendedor (a) ambulante structural engineer ingeniero (a) de estructuras (f.) student estudiante subcontractor subcontratista supervisor supervisor (a) supplier abastecedor (a) tailor sastre teacher maestro (a) thief ratero (a) translator traductor (a) uncle tío vice-president vice presidente waiter mesero (a) warehouser almacenista welder soldador (a) wholesaler mayorista winner ganador (a) woman mujer wood dealer maderero worker trabajador (a) writer escritor (a) 143 AGRICULTURE AND NURSERY – AGRICULTURA Y VIVEROS FIELD CROPS CULTIVO EXTENSIVO alfalfa hay pastura (f.) / heno (m.) de alfalfa (f.) alfalfa seed semilla (f.) de alfalfa (f.) barley cebada (f.) beans, dry edible frijoles (m.), comestible (m.) seco birdsfoot trefoil seed cuernecillo (m.), semilla (f.) clover trébol (m.) clover seed trébol (m.), semilla (f.) corn for grain maíz (m.) para grano (m.) dill for oil eneldo (m.) para aceite (m.) hops lúpulo (m.) Kentucky bluegrass seed pasto (m.) azul de Kentucky oats avena (f.) orchard grass seed pata (f.) de gallo (m.), semilla (f.) peas, Austrian winter chicharos (m.), austriacos de invierno (m.) peas, dry field chicharos (m.) secos peas, wrinkled green seed chicharos (m.) peppermint for oil menta (f.) para aceite (m.) peppermint for rootstock menta (f.) para rizoma (f.) potatoes papas (f.) radish seed rábano (m.), semilla (f.) reed canary grass seed alpiste (m.), semilla (f.) rice, wild arroz (m.) de agua (m.) profunda rye centeno (m.) silage, corn ensilaje (m.) de maíz (m.) silage, hay ensilaje (m.) de paja (f.) silage, mint ensilaje (m.) de menta (f.) sorghum sorgo (m.) soybeans soja (f.) spearmint for oil hierbabuena (f.) para aceite (m.) spearmint for rootstock hierbabuena (f.) para rizoma (f.) straw, grain paja (f.), grano (m.) straw, grass paja (f.), pasto (m.) sugar beets for seed remolacha (f.) para semilla (f.) sugar beets for sugar remolacha (f.) para azúcar (m.) sunflower oil & seed girasol (m.), aceite (m.) y semilla (f.) vegetable / flower seeds verdura (f.) / vegetal (m.) / semillas (f.) de flores (f.) vetch seed, common vicia (f.), semilla (f.), común wheat trigo (m.) wheatgrass seed pasto (m.) de trigo (m.), semilla (f.) FISHERY PRODUCTS PRODUCTOS DE PESCA abalone abulón (m.) anchovy anchoveta (f.) bass lobina (f.) bonito bonito (m.) carp carpa (f.) clams almejas (f.) cod bacalao (m.) conch caracol (m.) crabs jaibas (f.) / cangrejos (m.) crawfish langostino (m.) dogfish cazón (m.) flounder platija (f.) grouper mero (m.) grouper / sea bass cabrilla (f.) halibut halibut (m.) horse mackerel jurel (m.) lobster langosta (f.) mackerel macarela (f.) mullet lisa (f.) octopus pulpo (m.) oysters ostiones (m.) / ostras (f.) perch perca (f.) ray / skate raya (f.) red bream besugo (m.) red snapper guachinango (m.) / pargo (m.) salmon salmón (m.) sardine sardina (f.) 144 sea bass róbalo (m.) / corvina (f.) sea cucumber pepino de mar (m.) sea urchin erizo (m.) shad sábalo (m.) shark tiburón (m.) shrimp camarón (m.) skipjack tuna / bonito barrilete (m.) sole lenguado (m.) squid calamar (m.) stripped mullet lebrancho (m.) sturgeon esturión (m.) swordfish sierra (f.) trout trucha (f.) tuna atún (m.) FRUITS, NUTS & BERRIES FRUTAS, NUECES & MORAS apples manzanas (f.) apricots chabacano (m.) blackberries, evergreen zarzamoras (f.), perenne blackberries, Marion zarzamoras (f.), Marion blackberries, other zarzamoras (f.), variadas blueberries blueberry (f.) cherries, sweet cereza (f.), dulce cherries, tart cereza (f.), ácida cranberries arándano (m.) agrio currants, red grosella (f.), roja gooseberries grosella (f.) espinosa grapes uvas (f.) hazelnuts avellana (f.) peaches duraznos (m.) pears, Asian pera (f.), Asiática pears, Bartlett pera (f.), Bartlet pears, winter & other pera (f.), invernal y variados prunes & plums ciruela pasa (f.), y ciruela (f.) raspberries, black frambuesa (f.), negra raspberries, red frambuesa (f.), roja strawberries fresa (f.) walnuts nuez (f.) de castilla / nogal GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES accessory aditamento (m.) acclimation aclimatación (f.) acid ácido (m.) acre acre (m.) active ingredient ingrediente (m.) activo adhesive adhesivo (m.) / pegamento (m.) adventitious adventicio aerial aéreo aerial root rizoma (f.) aerobic aerobio aerobic bacteria bacteria (f.) aerobia aerosol aerosol (m.) aerosol spray rocío (m.) / aspersión (f.) por aerosol aggregate agregado (m.) aging envejecimiento agitator agitador (m.) agricultural agrario / agrícola agricultural chemicals sustancias (f.) químicas agrarias air conditioning aire (m.) acondicionado air discharge salida (f.) de aire (m.) air duct ducto (m.) de aire (m.) air supply entrada (f.) de aire (m.) air tight hermético albumen albúmina (f.) alkaline alcalino (m.) / base (f.) alkalinity alcalino alluvial aluvial alternate alternar altitude altitud (f.) alveolus alveolo (m.) amino acid aminoácido (m.) 145 ammonia amoniaco (m.) ammonium amonio (m.) anaerobic anaerobio analysis análisis (m.) anaphase anafase anatomical anatómico anatomy anotomía (f.) anemometer anemómetro (m.) anemone anémona (f.) angiosperm angiosperma (f.) angle ángulo (m.) anhydrous ammonia amoniaco / anhidro (m.) animal feed alimento (m.) para animales (m.) animal industry producción pecuaria (f.) / ganadería (f.) animal protein proteína animal (f.) anion anión (m.) antiseptic antiséptico (m.) annual anual annual ring anillo (m.) anual ant hormiga (f.) anther antera (f.) antitoxin antitoxina (f.) aphid áfido (m.) appetite apetito (m.) application aplicación (f.) apply, to aplicar aquaculture acuicultura (f.) aquatic acuático arable arable / cultivable arboriculture arboricultura (f.) area área (f.) aridity aridez (f.) aromatic aromático arsenic arsénico (m.) artery arteria (f.) arthropod artrópodo (m.) ascending ascendente (m.) ascorbic acid ácido (m.) ascórbico aseptic aséptico (m.) asexual asexual ash ceniza (f.) assimilate asimilar assortment surtido atmosphere atmósfera (f.) atmospheric pressure presión (f.) atmosférica atomic weight peso (f.) atómico atomize atomizar attach acoplar attachment accesorio (m.) attack atacar attractant atrayente (m.) automatic automático available aprovechable / asimilable average yield rendimiento promedio (m.) bacteria bacteria (f.) bactericide bactericida (m.) balanced diet dieta (f.) balanceada balcony balcón (m.) bale fardo (m.) / bala (f.) baling embalaje (m.) baling machine embaladora (f.) ball valve válvula (f.) de bola (f.) barbed wire alambre (m.) de púas (f.) bark corteza (f.) barn establo (m.) barnyard corral (m.) barren estéril basket canasta (f.) / cesto (m.) bee abeja (f.) beehive colmena (f.) belt conveyor banda (f.) transportadora bench banco (m.) bin cajón (m.) 146 black mold negrón (m.) black rot pudrición (f.) negra bleach blanquear blight tizón (m.) blister ampolla (f.) bone meal harina (f.) de huesos (m.) borax bórax (m.) box, to encajonar branch rama (f.) branch out ramificarse brine salmuera (f.) broom escoba (f.) brush cepillo (m.) budding, chip injerto (m.) de astilla (f.) budding, flute injerto (m.) de flauta (f.) budding, inverted T injerto (m.) en T invertida budding knife cuchillo (m.) de injerto (m.) budding patch injerto (m.) en parche (m.) budding, T injerto (m.) en T bunch ramo (m.) butterfly mariposa (f.) by-product derivado (m.) callus callo (m.) calorie caloría (f.) cambium cambium (m.) camphor alcanfor (m.) can lata (f.) canal canal (m.) canned enlatado (m.) canned fruit / vegetable fruta (f.) / verdura (f.) enlatada canvas lona (f.) capillary action acción (f.) capilar capillary vessel vaso (m.) capilar capsule cápsula (f.) carbohydrate carbohidrato (m.) carrier sustancia (f.) portadora cash crop cultivo (m.) comercial caterpillar tractor (m.) de oruga (f.) cattle ganado (m.) vacuno cattle industry industria (f.) pecuaria cell célula (f.) cell division división (f.) celular cell wall pared (f.) celular centrifugal centrífugo chain saw motosierra (f.) chalk gis (m.) chart gráfica (f.) chemical químico (m.) chemistry química (f.) chlorophyll clorofila (f.) chromosome cromosoma (f.) chute canal (m.) de descarga (f.) circular circular climate clima (m.) climbing trepando clod terrón (f.) clump grupo (f.) clutch cloch (f.) / embrague (f.) coarse grueso cohesion cohesión (f.) cold storage conservación (f.) fría collar cuello (m.) colloid coloide (m.) colony colonia (f.) combine cosechadora (f.) / trilladora (f.) compost abono (m.) vegetal compressor compresor (m.) concentrate concentrado (m.) condensation condensación (f.) confinement encierro connective conectivo container recipiente (m.) / envase (m.) contaminate contaminar 147 control control co-op cooperativa (m.) cooperative cooperativa (f.) cover tapa (f.) cover, to tapar / cubrir crate jaula (f.) crawler tractor tractor (m.) de oruga (f.) crop row surco (m.) cross pollination polinización (f.) cruzada dairy lechería day día (m.) daylight luz (f.) del día (f.) debris desecho (m.) decay putrefacción (f.) deep rooting enraizado (m.) profundo deformed deformado dense denso depth profundidad (f.) depth of soil profundidad (f.) del suelo (m.) detergent detergente (m.) dig up desenterrar digestion digestión (f.) dip baño (m.) disbudding desbrotar disc harrow grada (f.) de discos (m.) disease enfermedad (f.) disinfect desinfectar disinfectant desinfectante (m.) dissolve disolver distillate destilar ditch zanja (f.) dormancy estado (m.) latente dosage dosis (f.) double doble drainage drenaje drought sequia (f.) dry secar duct conducto (m.) dwarf enano (m.) dye tinte (m.) ear oreja (f.) ear of corn mazorca (f.) early temprano early variety variedad (f.) temprana earthquake terremoto (m.) earthworm lombriz (f.) earwig tijereta (f.) east este (m.) / oriente (m.) echo eco (m.) ecology ecología (f.) economics economía (f.) edible comestible (m.) effect efecto egg huevo (m.) egg white clara (f.) de huevo (m.) egg yolk yema (f.) elasticity elasticidad (f.) electric eléctrico (m.) electric fence cerca (f.) eléctrica electrode electrodo (m.) element elemento (m.) elevator elevador (m.) elliptical elíptico embryo embrión (m.) empty vacío (m.) emulsion emulsión (f.) end fin (m.) endless de nunca acabar endosperm endosperma (m.) energy energía (f.) environment medio ambiente (m.) enzyme enzima (f.) 148 epidemic epidemia (f.) equator ecuador (m.) equipment equipo (m.) erect erecto erosion erosión (f.) evaporation evaporación (f.) evergreen hoja (f.) perennes excelsior zacate (m.) de empaque (m.) excrement excremento (m.) exit salida (f.) exotic exótico experiment experimento (m.) export exportación (f.) extract extracto (m.) eye ojo (m.) fabric tela (f.) factors of production factores (m.) de producción (f.) faded decoloración (f.) fall otoño (m.) fan ventilador (m.) fat gordura (f.) / grasa (f.) faucet llave (f.) feather pluma (f.) feces heces (f.) feed alimento (m.) feeding trough comedero (m.) female hembra (f.) fence cerca (f.) fertile fértil fertilizer fertilizante (m.) fertilizer mixture mezcla (f.) de fertilizantes (m.) fertilizer spreader distribuidor (a) de fertilizantes (m.) fibrous fibroso fibrous root raíz (f.) fibrosa field campo (m.) field capacity capacidad (f.) de campo (m.) field crop cultivo (m.) extensivo filter filtro (m.) fine dust polvo (m.) fino fire fuego (m.) firmness dureza (f.) fish meal harina (f.) de pescado (m.) fit ajuste (m.) flat plano flat (box) cajón (m.) / cajonera (f.) flax lino (m.) flood inundación (f.) floriculture floricultura (f.) flour harina (f.) flower flor (f.) flower pot maceta (f.) / envase (m.) fodder forraje (m.) fog niebla (f.) foliage follaje (m.) food alimento (m.) / comida (f.) foot (animal) pata (f.) foot (human) pie (m.) forecast pronóstico (m.) forest bosque (m.) formula fórmula (f.) fragrance fragancia (f.) freezer congelador (m.) front frente (m.) frozen congelado fruit fruta (f.) fumigant fumigante (m.) fungicidal fungicida (m.) garden jardín (m.) gas burner quemador (m.) de gas (m.) gasket empaque (m.) gene gen (m.) generator generador (m.) 149 genus género (m.) geological geológico germ germen (m.) gland glándula (f.) glass fiber fibra (f.) de vidrio (m.) grade categoría (f.) graft injerto (m.) graft crown corona (f.) del injerto (m.) graft hybrid injerto (m.) de hibrido (m.) graft knife cuchillo (m.) de injerto (m.) graft union unión (f.) del injerto (m.) grafting wax betún (m.) de injerto (m.) granular granuloso gravel grava (f.) greenhouse invernadero (m.) greenhouse culture cultivo (m.) de invernadero (m.) groove encaje (m.) / ranura (f.) gutter canal (m.) gypsum yeso (m.) habit hábito (m.) habitat hábitat (m.) hail granizo (m.) hairy velloso / peludo hall pasillo (m.) hand seeder sembrador (m.) de mano (f.) handle mango (m.) hard hat casco (m.) hard water agua (m.) dura hardware ferretería (f.) hardy resistente al frío (m.) harrow grada (f.) / rastra (f.) harvest cosecha (f.) hay chopper picadora (f.) de heno (m.) head cabeza (f.) heartwood duramen (m.) heavy pesado hectare hectárea (f.) hedge seto (m.) height altura (f.) hemp cáñamo (m.) hemp, manila cáñamo (m.) de manila (f.) herbicide herbicida (m.) herd manada (f.) heredity herencia (f.) hide cuero (m.) hoe azadón (m.) hole hoyo (m.) hollow hueco (m.) hoof casco (m.) / pesuña (f.) horse caballo (m.) horsepower caballos (m.) de fuerza hose manguera (f.) hosebib llave (f.) hot caliente hour hora (f.) hull cáscara (f.) humid húmedo husk cáscara (f.) / envoltura (f.) hybrid híbrido (m.) hydraulic lift elevador (m.) hidráulico hydrometer hidrómetro (m.) ice hielo (m.) ignition encendido immature inmaduro immersed inmerso immune inmune import importación impurity impureza (f.) inclination inclinación (f.) income ingreso (m.) increase incremento (m.) / aumento (m.) incubation incubación (f.) 150 incubator incubadora (f.) index indice (m.) inedible incomible inferior inferior infertile estéril influence influencia (f.) information información (f.) ingredient ingrediente (m.) inhibitor inhibidor (m.) injection inyección (f.) inlet entrada (f.) insect insecto (m.) insect control lucha (f.) contra insectos (m.) insecticide insecticida (m.) / plaguicida (m.) insertion inserción (f.) inspection inspección (f.) instruction instrucción (f.) intensity intensidad (f.) internode entrenudo (m.) interval intervalo (m.) invade invasión (f.) invertebrate invertebrado (m.) iron hierro (m.) irregular irregular irrigation riego (m.) isolation aislamiento (m.) jack gato (m.) jacket chamarra (f.) jackknife navaja (f.) jag punta (f.) / diente (m.) jalopy carcacha (f.) jar frasco (m.) jaw mandíbula (f.) jet stream corriente (f.) a chorro (m.) job trabajo (m.) jog empujón (m.) joint unión (f.) jolt sacudida (f.) journal diario (m.) / revista (f.) juice jugo (m.) juicy jugoso jungle selva (f.) juniper enebro (m.) key llave (f.) kick patada (f.) kid cabrito (m.) kidney riñón (m.) kilo kilo (m.) kilowatt kilovatio (m.) kin parientes kinetic cinético kink retorcimiento kit equipo (m.) knife cuchillo (m.) / navaja (f.) knife, grafting navaja (f.) de injerto (m.) knock golpe (m.) knot nudo (m.) knuckle nudillo (m.) kudo elogio (m.) label etiqueta (f.) labor mano de obra (f.) labor cost costo de mano de obra (m.) lactation lactación (f.) lake lago (m.) land tierra (f.) land use aprovechamiento (m.) de la tierra landslide derrumbe (m.) lavatory inodoro (m.) lawn césped (m.) / pasto (m.) layer capa (f.) lead plomo (m.) 151 leaf hoja (f.) leather piel (f.) lesion lesión (f.) level llano (m.) / nivel (m.) light luz (f.) lightening relámpago (m.) lime cal (f.) lip labio (m.) liquid líquido (m.) liter litro (m.) litter (animal) camada (f.) litter (trash) basura (f.) load carga (f.) lobe (botany) lóbulo (m.) lock cerradura (f.) long largo loose suelto loss pérdida (f.) low bajo maggot oruga (f.) magnesia magnesia (f.) main branch rama (f.) principal main bud brote (m.) principal main root raíz (f.) principal manhole alcantarilla (f.) map mapa (m.) market mercado (m.) maximum máximo mealy harinoso medium medio mineral mineral (m.) mist neblina (f.) moist húmedo mole topo (m.) moth polilla (f.) mother madre (f.) mouse ratón (m.) mud lodo (m.) muddy lodoso mutant mutante (m.) mutation mutación nail clavo (m.) narcotic narcótico (m.) natural enemy enemigo (m.) natural nature naturaleza (f.) nectar néctar (m.) neglect descuido nematode nematodo (m.) nerve nervio (m.) neutral neutral nicotine nicotina (f.) night noche (f.) nitrate nitrato (m.) nitrogen nitrógeno (m.) node nudo (m.) nozzle boquilla (f.) nucleus núcleo (m.) nutrient elemento (m.) nutritivo nutritious nutritivo oak roble (m.) / encino (m.) obese obeso / gordo oblong oblongo obstruction obstrucción (f.) oil aceite (m.) one celled unicelular operation operación (f.) orchard huerta (f.) organic orgánico organic matter materia (f.) orgánica organophosphate organofosforado (m.) orient oeste (m.) / oriente (m.) 152 origin origen (m.) ornament adorno (m.) ornamental ornamental ounce onza (f.) outdoor al aire libre outlet salida (f.) oval ovalado oven horno (m.) ovule óvulo (m.) oxygen oxígeno (m.) packing embalaje (m.) padded acojinado pail cubeta (f.) paint pintura (f.) pallet paleta (f.) palpitation palpitación pane vidrio (m.) panel panel (m.) papilla papila (f.) paralysis parálisis (m.) parasite parásito (m.) parasitic parasítico park parque (m.) paste pasta (f.) pasture pastizal (m.) patch parche (m.) path caminito (m.) / sendero (m.) pathogen patógeno (m.) pay pago (m.) pay day día de pago (m.) peel piel (f.) / cáscara (f.) pellet pelotilla (f.) periodicity periodicidad (f.) persistence persistencia (f.) personnel personal (m.) pest plaga (f.) pest control lucha (f.) contra las plagas pesticide pesticida (m.) / plaguicida (m.) petal pétalo (m.) pH pH (m.) phytocide fitocida (m.) pick pico (m.) pine pino (m.) pint pinta (f.) pit fosa (f.) pit (fruit) hueso (m.) / semilla (f.) plague plaga (f.) plank tabla (f.) plant planta (f.) plastic plástico (m.) pliers pinzas (f.) plot lote (m.) / parcela (f.) plug tapón (m.) pole palo (m.) pond charco (m.) pore poro (m.) porosity porosidad pot maceta (f.) pound libra (f.) power tool herramienta (f.) mecánica predator animal (m.) de rapiña / animal (m.) cazador process procedimiento (m.) profile perfil (m.) project proyecto (m.) propane propano (m.) protein proteína (f.) pruning knife podadera (f.) pruning shears tijera (m.) de podar pulp pulpa (f.) purity pureza (f.) putty mástic (m.) quality calidad (f.) 153 quality control control de calidad (m.) quality norm norma de calidad (f.) quarantine cuarentena (f.) quick freeze congelación (f.) rápida quicklime cal (f.) / cal viva (f.) quinine quinina (f.) race carrera (f.) radiation radiación (f.) rag trapo (m.) rain / rain fall lluvia (f.) rasp rallador (m.) rate tasa (f.) rattlesnake víbora (f.) de cascabel (m.) recessive recesivo (m.) rectangle rectángulo (m.) reduce reducir reducing valve válvula (f.) reductora reed junco (m.) reflector reflector (m.) regimen régimen (m.) remedy remedio (m.) removable desmontable repellent repelente (m.) replacement part repuesto (m.) / refacción (f.) resin resina (f.) rest reposo (m.) ripe maduro rock roca (f.) / piedra (f.) rodent roedor (m.) roof techo (m.) root raíz (f.) rot putrefacción (f.) rotten podrido runnel túnel (m.) sack saco (m.) / costal (m.) safety margin margen (m.) de seguridad (f.) safety valve válvula (f.) de seguridad (f.) saliva saliva (f.) salt sal (f.) sand arena (f.) sandy arenoso sandy soil suelo (m.) arenoso saturation saturación (f.) scar cicatriz (f.) scent olor (m.) schedule horario (m.) season temporada (f.) / estación (f.) sediment sedimento (m.) seed semilla (f.) selection selección (f.) selective cutting corta (f.) de mejoramiento (m.) selling vendiendo separation separación (f.) serrate aserrado (m.) sex sexo (m.) shade sombra (f.) shallow superficial sharp afilado shears tijeras (f.) shell cascara (f.) shelling desgrane sick enfermo (m.) side lado (m.) silo ensiladora (f.) size tamaño (m.) skin piel (f.) skin (fruit) cáscara (f.) sky cielo (m.) slaughter matanza (f.) slope pendiente (f.) smell olor (m.) snail caracol (m.) 154 snake culebra (f.) / víbora (f.) / serpiente (f.) snow nieve (f.) soft suave / blando soil suelo (m.) solder soldadura (f.) soluble soluble sour agrio space espacio (m.) spacing espaciamiento spare parts refacciones (f.) spark plug bujía (f.) sperm esperma (m.) (f.) spider web telaraña (f.) spine espina (f.) spore espora (f.) spot mancha (f.) sprayer rociadora (f.) sprayer wetting agent adherente (m.) sprinkler rociador (m.) stake estaca (f.) stalk tallo (m.) starch almidón (m.) steep empinado sterile estéril stick palo (m.) sting picadura (f.) stitch punto (m.) stock planta madre (f.) stone (fruit) hueso (m.) stove estufa (f.) straw paja (f.) stream arroyo (m.) stump tronco (m.) substance substancia (f.) sucker retoño (m.) sun sol (m.) tablespoon cucharada (f.) talc talco (m.) tank tanque (m.) tape measure cinta de medir (f.) task tarea (f.) team work tarea de equipo (f.) technique técnica (f.) temporary temporal tendency tendencia (f.) tendril zarcillo (m.) tension (voltage) tensión (f.) / voltaje (m.) terminal terminal (f.) termite termita (f.) texture textura (f.) thick grueso (m.) / espeso (m.) thinning aclareo (m.) / deshaíje (m.) thorn espina (f.) throat garganta (f.) tissue tejido (m.) tolerance tolerancia (f.) ton tonelada (f.) tool herramienta (m.) top soil capa (f.) arable toxicity toxicidad (f.) trace traza (f.) tractor tractor (m.) transmission transmisión (f.) trap trampa (f.) treatment tratamiento (m.) tree árbol (m.) trellis soporte (m.) trench zanja (f.) triangle triángulo (m.) tripod trípode (m.) trunk tronco (m.) tuber tubérculo (m.) tubing tubería (f.) 155 tubular tubiforme turgid turgente turpentine trementina (f.) twine cuerda (f.) type tipo (m.) ugly feo ulcer úlcera (f.) ultimate último (m.) ultra ultra ultraviolet ultravioleta unabated constante unaccustomed inacostumbrado unadapted inadaptado unadorned sin adorno unaffected no afectado unaided sin ayuda uncap destapar uncontrollable incontrolable uncover descubrir undamaged sano underground subterráneo (m.) underlay reforzar por debajo undesirable indeseable undissolvable indisoluble unfit incapaz uniform uniforme (m.) union unión (f.) unirrigated land sequio (m.) unisex unisexo (m.) unit unidad (f.) unlock abrir con llave (f.) unripe inmadura untreated sin tratar up arriba urea urea (f.) urge impulso (m.) urine orina (f.) use uso (m.) useful life vida (f.) útil uterus útero (m.) utilization utilización (f.) vacuole vacuola (f.) vacuum vacío (m.) valve válvula (f.) vapor barrier barrera (f.) antivapor variance variación (f.) variety variedad (f.) vascular vascular vector vector (m.) vein vena (f.) ventilation ventilación (f.) ventilator ventilador (m.) vermiculite vermiculita (f.) versatile versátil viability viabilidad (f.) vigorous vigoroso vineyard viña (f.) / viñedo (m.) virology virología (f.) virus virus (m.) viscosity viscosidad (f.) viscous viscoso vitamin vitamina (f.) volatile volátil volume volumen (m.) wage pago (m.) / sueldo (m.) waist cintura (f.) wall pared (f.) / muro (m.) ward proteger warehouse almacén (m.) warm tibio warmth calor (m.)
turgid turgente turpentine trementina (f.) twine cuerda (f.) type tipo (m.) ugly feo ulcer úlcera (f.) ultimate último (m.) ultra ultra ultraviolet ultravioleta unabated constante unaccustomed inacostumbrado unadapted inadaptado unadorned sin adorno unaffected no afectado unaided sin ayuda uncap destapar uncontrollable incontrolable uncover descubrir undamaged sano underground subterráneo (m.) underlay reforzar por debajo undesirable indeseable undissolvable indisoluble unfit incapaz uniform uniforme (m.) union unión (f.) unirrigated land sequio (m.) unisex unisexo (m.) unit unidad (f.) unlock abrir con llave (f.) unripe inmadura untreated sin tratar up arriba urea urea (f.) urge impulso (m.) urine orina (f.) use uso (m.) useful life vida (f.) útil uterus útero (m.) utilization utilización (f.) vacuole vacuola (f.) vacuum vacío (m.) valve válvula (f.) vapor barrier barrera (f.) antivapor variance variación (f.) variety variedad (f.) vascular vascular vector vector (m.) vein vena (f.) ventilation ventilación (f.) ventilator ventilador (m.) vermiculite vermiculita (f.) versatile versátil viability viabilidad (f.) vigorous vigoroso vineyard viña (f.) / viñedo (m.) virology virología (f.) virus virus (m.) viscosity viscosidad (f.) viscous viscoso vitamin vitamina (f.) volatile volátil volume volumen (m.) wage pago (m.) / sueldo (m.) waist cintura (f.) wall pared (f.) / muro (m.) ward proteger warehouse almacén (m.) warm tibio warmth calor (m.) 156 warp deformar washer lavadora (f.) waste desperdicio (m.) water agua (m.) water resistant resistente al agua (m.) water table capa (f.) freática watering can regadera (f.) waterproof impermeable (m.) wavy ondulado wax cera (f.) weak débil weather tiempo (m.) wedge cuña (f.) weed hierba (f.) weekly semanalmente well pozo (m.) wet mojado wheel rueda (f.) wheelbarrow carretilla (f.) while mientras whip azotar whirlpool remolino (m.) wind viento (m.) window ventana (f.) wire alambre (m.) withered marchitado wood madera (f.) wool lana (f.) work plan plan (m.) de trabajo (m.) worth valor (m.) wound herida (f.) wrap manta (f.) wring retorcer wrong malo xylem xilema (m.) yard patio (m.) / jardín (m.) yard (measure) yarda (f.) yardstick vara (f.) de medir yield rendimiento (m.) young joven zenith apogeo (m.) zero cero (m.) zigzag zigzag zinc zinc (m.) zone zona (f.) zoology zoología (f.) HORTICULTURE & SPECIALTY PRODUCTS HORTICULTURA Y PRODUCTOS ESPECIALIZADOS bulbs, flower bulbos (m.), flor (f.) Christmas trees árboles (m.) de navidad conifers coníferos (m.) evergreens, broadleaf perennifolios (m.), árboles (m.) de hojas (f.) anchas flowers, cut flores (f.), cortadas mushrooms hongos (m.) / champiñones (m.) nursery crops cultivos (m.) de vivero (m.) plants, bedding plantas (f.), semilleros (m.) plants, potted plantas (f.), enmacetada poplars, hybrid álamos (m.), híbridos shrubs, deciduous arbustos (m.), deciduos sod césped (m.) / pasto (m.) trees, deciduous árboles (m.), deciduos trees, flowering árboles (m.), florecientes 157 IRRIGATION IRRIGACIÓN dry seco filter filtro (m.) funnel embudo (m.) hose bib llave (f.) injector inyector (m.) nozzle boquilla (m.) pipe (large diameter) tubo (m.) pipe (portable, small diameter) pipa (f.) pump bomba (f.) rain gear impermeable (m.) siphon sifón (m.) solenoid valve válvula (f.) solenoide sprinkler rociador (m.) / irrigador (m.) sprinkler head aspersor (m.) tank tanque (m.) valve válvula (f.) washer rondana (f.) wet mojado IRRIGATION PIPE PIPA DE IRRIGACIÓN brush brocha (f.) cap casquillo de tubo (m.) coupling 45 degrees codo de 45 grados (m.) coupling 90 degrees codo de 90 grados (m.) deep profundo (f.) ditch zanja (f.) drying time período de endurecimiento (m.) elbow codo (m.) emitter boquilla (f.) emitter, clogged goteo tapado (m.) filter filtro (m.) flux fundente (m.) gated pipe tubo con puertas (m.) leak fuga (f.) nipple niple (m.) pipe tubo (m.) pipe, copper tubo de cobre (m.) pipe cutter cortador para tubería (m.) pipe, iron tubo de hierro (m.) pipe, plastic tubo de plástico (m.) pipe thread rosca de tubo (f.) pipe, threaded tubo roscado (m.) plug tapón (m.) pressure presión (f.) pressure regulator regulador de presión (m.) pressure test prueba de presión (f.) primer cebador (m.) pump bomba (f.) PVC cement pegamento PVC (m.) sandpaper papel de lija (m.) shallow poco profundo (f.) solder soldadura (f.) tee “T” (m.) Teflon tape cinta teflón (f.) timer reloj automático (m.) torch soplete (m.) tubing tubería (f.) valve válvula (f.) 158 LIVESTOCK & POULTRY GANADO Y AVE alpacas alpacas (f.) calf ternero (m.) cattle & calves ganado (m.) y terneros (m.) chickens pollos (m.) dairy products lácteos, productos (m.) eggs huevos (m.) emus emús (m.) equine caballaje (m.) game birds pájaros (m.) de caza goats cabras (f.) hogs & pigs marranos (m.) / cerdos (m.) / puercos (m.) honey miel (f.) llamas llamas (f.) mink visón (m.) ostriches avestruces (f.) rabbits conejos (m.) rheas ñandú (m.) sheep & lambs oveja (f.) / borrego (m.) y corderos (m.) turkeys pavos (m.) / guajolotes (m.) wool lana (f.) MACHINERY / EQUIPMENT MAQUINARIA / EQUIPO backhoe retroexcavadora (f.) baling machine empacadora (f.) / enfardadora (f.) / embaladora (f.) belt conveyor banda (f.) transportadora caterpillar tractor (m.) de oruga (f.) combination till and cultivator cultivadora (f.) y rastra (f.) combinada combine cosechadora (f.) / trilladora (f.) compressor compresora (f.) conveyor belt banda (f.) transportadora cotton harvester cosechadora (f.) de algodón crawler dozer tractor (m.) de orugas (f.) crop cultivator cultivadora (f.) para cultivo (m.) en hilera defoliating machine deshojadora (f.) disc coulter reja (f.) circular ditch digger zanjadora (f.) drill, coulter reja (f.) de sembradora drill, fertilizer abonadora (f.) mecánica drill, seeder sembradora (f.) de surcos engine motor (m.) excavator excavadora (f.) fertilizer spreader distribuidor (m.) de fertilizantes (m.) forklift montacargas (m.) front weights contrapesos (m.) grain drill sebradora (f.) neumática harrow rastra (f.) harrow disc rastra (f.) de discos (m.) hay chopper picadora (f.) de heno (m.) hitch command control (m.) de enganche (m.) horizontal directional driller perforadora (f.) direccional horizontal hydraulic control control (m.) hidráulico land plane / steamroller niveladora (f.) / aplanadora (f.) mini-excavator mini-excavadoras (f.) mower segadora (f.) acondicionadora / rotativa pick-up truck camioneta (f.) planter sembradora (f.) plow arado (m.) plow, disc arado (m.) de discos (f.) plowshare reja (f.) del arado (m.) plowsole piso (m.) del arado (m.) potato digger arrancador (m.) de papas (f.) power take off (PTO) toma (f.) de fuerza (f.) powershift transmisión (f.) ripper chísel (m.) rotary cultivator cultivador (m.) rotativo scraper escrepa (f.) subsoiler arado (m.) de subsuelo (m.) till rastra (f.) de discos (m.) en tándem tool carrier cargadora (f.) de herramienta (f.) tractor tractor (m.) trencher zanjadora (f.) 159 truck camión (m.) / camión (m.) de carga (f.) uniloader minicargadora (f.) wheel loaders cargadora (f.) frontal windrow pickup cabezal (m.) para grano (m.) / maíz (m.) OTHER AGRICULTURE PRODUCTS OTROS PRODUCTOS AGRÍCOLAS achiote achiote (m.) acorn bellota (f.) African palm palma africana (f.) almond almendra (f.) almond plum ciruela (f.) de almendra (f.) amaranth amaranto (m.) anise anís (m.) apricot chabacano (m.) artichoke alcachofa (m.) asparagus esparrago (m.) avocado aguacate (m.) azalea azalea (f.) baby´s breath nube (f.) bale of straw bala (f.) o fardo (m.) de paja (f.) bamboo bambú (m.) bamboo cane caña (f.) de bambú (m.) banana plátano (m.) bark corteza (f.) barley for feed cebada (f.) forrajera barley grain cebada (f.) grano (m.) basil albahaca (f.) bean frijol (m.) bee abeja (f.) beehive colmena (f.) beets betabel (m.) begonia begonia (f.) Bermuda grass zacate (m.) Bermuda (f.) bird pájaro (m.) / ave (m.) bird of paradise ave (m.) del paraíso bird seed alpiste (m.) black cherry cereza (f.) negra black currant grosella (f.) negra black olive aceituna (f.) negra black walnut nogal (m.) negro blossom flor (f.) boll cápsula (f.) de algodón (m.) bone meal harina (f.) de hueso (m.) bran salvado (m.) brewer´s yeast levadura (f.) de cerveza (f.) broom millet sorgo (m.) escobero brown sugar caña (f.) de azúcar (m.) / piloncillo (m.) Brussel sprouts col (f.) de bruselas bull toro (m.) bumblebee abejón (m.) bunch (grapes) racimo (m.) butterfly mariposa (f.) cabbage col (f.) / repollo (m.) cactus cactus (m.) cane for feed caña (f.) forrajera canned fruit fruta (f.) enlatada canned vegetables verdura (f.) enlatada caraway alcaravea (f.) carnation clavel (m.) carob / locust tree algarrobo (m.) cashew nuez (f.) de la India cassava yuca (f.) castor bean semilla (f.) de ricino (m.) castor oil plant higuerilla (f.) cauliflower coliflor (f.) cedar cedro (m.) celery apio (m.) cereal cereal (m.) chamomile manzanilla (f.) chard acelga (f.) chayote squash chayote (m.) 160 cheat for fodder trigo (m.) forrajero cheese queso (m.) cherry tomato tomate (m.) cherry chestnut castaña (f.) chick pollito (m.) chicory achicoria (f.) Chinese cabbage repollo (m.) / col (f.) de China chives cebollín (m.) chrysanthemum crisantemo (m.) cider sidra (f.) cineraria cineraria (f.) cinnamon canela (f.) citrus cítricos (m.) cock gallo (m.) cocoa cacao (m.) coconut coco (m.), fruta (f.) cocoon capullo (m.) cod liver oil aceite (m.) de hígado (m.) de bacalao (m.) coffee in cherries (berries) café (m.) cereza (m.) copra copra (f.) coriander / cilantro cilantro (m.) cork corcho (m.) corn for feed maíz (m.) forrajero corn grain maíz (m.) grano (m.) corn on the cob elote (m.) cotton seed algodón (m.), semilla (f.) crop cosecha (f.) / cultivo (m.) / sembrado (m.) cucumber pepino (m.) cumin comino (m.) cyclamen cyclamen (m.) daikon radish daikon (m.) daisy margarita (f.) dates dátil (m.) dried chile pepper chile (m.) seco eggplant berenjena (f.) epazote epazote (m.) eucalyptus eucalipto (m.) fig higo (m.) flowers flores (f.) fodder forrajes (m.) frozen vegetables verdura (f.) congelada garbanzo bean garbanzo (m.) blanco garbanzo for feed garbanzo (m.) forrajero gardens hortalizas (f.) geranium geranio (m.) gerbera daisy gerbera (f.) ginger jenjibre (m.) gladioli gladiola (f.) gourd guaje (m.) grape uva (f.) grapefruit toronja (f.) green bread bean haba (f.) verde green pepper chile (m.) morrón green / string bean ejote (m.) guava guayaba (f.) hemp henequén (m.) hyacinth jamaica (f.) jicama jícama (f.) jojoba jojoba (f.) juniper nebrina (f.) kabocha squash calabaza (f.) kabocha leek poro (m.) lemon lima (f.) lemon tea té (m.) limón (m.) lentil lenteja (f.) lettuce lechuga (f.) 161 lily azucena (f.) lime limón (m.) linseed linaza (f.) mamey mamey (m.) mandarin orange mandarina (f.) mango mango (m.) marjoram mejorana (f.) melon melón (m.) melon seed melón (m.) semilla (f.) mustard mostaza (f.) nectarine nectarina (f.) nopal cactus paddles nopalitos (m.) nursery viveros (m.) oatmeal for feed avena (f.) forrajera oats avena (f.) grano (m.) okra (gumbo) okra (f.) (gombo (m.)) olive aceituna (f.) onion cebolla (f.) orange naranja (f.) oregano orégano (m.) papaya papaya (f.) parsley perejil (m.) peanuts cacahuate (m.) pepper pimienta (f.) persimmon palosanto (m.) / caqui (m.) petunia petunia (f.) pineapple piña (f.) pine nut piñon (m.) pistachio pistache (m.) plantain plátano (m.) macho (m.) poinsettia noche (f.) buena pomegranate granada (f.) pony jaca (f.) popcorn maíz (m.) palomero potato seed papa (f.) semilla (m.) prickly pear tuna (f.) pumpkin seed pepita (f.) quince membrillo (m.) radish rábano (m.) raisin uva (f.) pasa rose rosa (f.) rosemary romero (m.) rutabaga colinabo (m.) rye for feed centeno (m.) forrajero rye grain centeno (m.) grano (f.) salad tomato tomate (m.) rojo saladette sapodilla / sapota zapote (m.) scrubber / bath sponge estropajo (m.) / zacate (m.) seed cotton algodón (m.) hueso (m.) sesame seed ajonjolí (m.) sorghum sorgo (m.) soursop guanábana (f.) soy soya (f.) spinach espinaca (f.) statice statice (m.) sugar cane caña (f.) de azúcar (f.) sunflower girasol (m.) sweetened alfalfa alfalfa (f.) achicalada sweetened barley cebada (f.) achicalada sweetened oatmeal avena (f.) achicalada tamarind tamarindo (m.) tangelo tángelo (m.) tangerine tangerina (f.) thyme tomillo (m.) tobacco tabaco (m.) turnip nabo (m.) 162 turnip for feed nabo (m.) forrajero Valencia orange naranja (f.) valenciana vanilla vainilla (f.) watermelon sandia (f.) wheat grain trigo (m.) grano yams camote (m.) yucca yuca (f.) alimenticia PEOPLE GENTE advisor asesor agriculturist agricultor agronomist agronomista applicator aplicador arborist arbolista attorney abogado biologist biólogo (a) botanist botánico breeder criador buyer comprador (a) cattleman ganadero chemist químico client cliente consumer consumidor (a) contractor contratista crop advisor asesor de cultivo cultivator cultivador customer comprador (a) / cliente dairyman lechero (a) daughter hija director director (a) economist economista employer patrón (a) engineer ingeniero (a) entomologist entomólogo (a) exporter exportador (a) family familia farm hand / field hand bracero farmer agricultor / campesino (a) father padre female hembra floriculturist floricultor (a) foreman mayordomo / capataz gardener jardinero handler manejador (a) horticulturist horticultor (a) husband esposo inspector inspector (a) landlord propietario (a) landowner propietario (a) landscaper diseñador (a) de jardín leaseholder arrendatario (a) male macho mother madre nurseryman vivericultor (a) operator operario / operador owner dueño packer empaquetador partner socio 163 picker cosechador planter plantador poultry raiser avicultor producer productor propagator propagador rancher ranchero (a) retailer menudista seasonal labor obreros (as) estacionales / obreros (as) de temporada seller vendedor (a) son hijo surveyor agrimensor / topógrafo veterinarian veterinario viticulturist vinicultor wholesaler mayorista wife esposa worker trabajador (a) / obrero (a) zoologist zoólogo (a) TOOLS HERRAMIENTA chainsaw motosierra (f.) edger recortadora (f.) flower pot maceta (f.) garden hose manguera (f.) grafting knife navaja para injerto (f.) grass catcher receptor de pasto (m.) hand pruners tijeras (f.) hedge shears tijera para setos (f.) hoe azadón (m.) lawnmower podadora (f.) loppers tijeras de podar con mangas largas (f.) pick pico (m.) pitchfork horquilla para paja / heno pruning knife cuchillo de poda (m.) pruning saw sierra de podar (f.) rake rastrillo (m.) roller rodillo (m.) rototiller cultivadora giratoria (f.) scythe guadaña (f.) secateurs tijeras de podar (f.) seed drill sembradora (f.) shears tijeras (f.) shovel, spade pala (f.) sickle hoz (m.) spading fork horquilla cavadora (f.) sprayer rociador (m.) string cuerda / hilo (m.) trowel desplantador (m.) watering can regadera (f.) wheelbarrow carretilla (f.) VEGETABLE & TRUCK CROPS VERDURAS Y PRODUCTOS CAMIONEROS artichokes alcachofas (f.) asparagus espárragos (m.) beans, lima habas (f.) beans, snap ejotes (m.) beets betabel (m.) broccoli brócoli (m.) / bróculi (m.) Brussel sprouts col (f.) de Bruselas cantaloupes melones (m.) carrots zanahorias (f.) cauliflower coliflor (f.) celery apio (m.) corn, sweet maíz (m.), dulce cucumbers pepino (m.) eggplant berenjena (f.) endive endibia (f.) escarole escarola (f.) 164 garlic ajo (m.) horseradish rábano (m.) picante lettuce lechuga (f.) mustard mostaza (f.) onions, green cebolla (f.), verde / de cambray onions, storage cebolla (f.), para almacén parsley perejil (m.) parsnips pastinaca (f.) peas, green chícharo (m.), verde peppers chiles (m.) radishes rábanos (m.) rhubarb ruibarbo (m.) rutabagas colinabo (m.) spinach espinaca (f.) squash & pumpkins calabazita (f.) y calabaza (f.) Swiss chard acelga (f.) tomatoes tomate (m.) rojo / jitomate (m.) turnips nabo (m.) wasabi wasabi (m.) watermelons sandia (f.) VERBS VERBOS absorb absorber accelerate acelerar acclimatize aclimatar acidify acidificar add agregar adsorb adsorber advice asesorar / recomendar aerial spraying rocío (m.) aéreo / aspersión (f.) aérea age envejecer agitate agitar air condition acondicionar el aire air dry secar al aire alter alterar alternate alternar analyze analizar anchor anclar apply aplicar attach acoplar attack atacar back cross retrocruzar backfurrow contrasurco bake hornear balance balancear bale embalar / enfardar bite morder bloat hinchar / inflamar blossom florear blow soplar boil hervir brace apoyar brake frenar break romper breathe respirar breed criar broker corredor bruise magullar / moretonear bud brotar build construir calibrate calibrar can (able) poder can (canning) enlatar capillary action acción capilar castrate castrar / capar clamp amordazar clip (attach) abrochar clip (cut) cortar clone clonar colonize colonizar compact comprimir 165 compare comparar compete competir complement complementar compost fermentar compress apelmazar concentrate concentrar condense condensar contaminate contaminar contract (to shrink) contraer contract (to sign a contract) contratar controlled flood inundación regulada coordinate coordinar corrode oxidar cover cubrir / tapar cover up cubrir cross cruzar cure curar curl encrespar cut down abatir darken obscurecer decay pudrir decompose descomponer deep plow arar profundamente deepen profundizar deflocculate deflocular degenerate degenerar dehorn descornar dehydrate deshidratar / secar demand requerir demonstrate demostrar denitrify desnitrificar deposit depositar desiccate desecar detach desprender detassel despanojar deteriorate deteriorar dig cavar dig-up arrancar dip sumergir disbud desbotonar / desyemar dissolve disolver distribute distribuir drain drenar / desaguar dredge dragar drizzle (rain) lloviznar dry secar dry out resecar dry up resecarse / requemarse dust polvorear effervesce espumar empty vaciar end terminar enrich enriquecer ensilage ensilar eradicate extirpar erode erosionar establish establecer estimate calcular evaporate evaporar export exportar extract extraer farrow parir feed alimentar fell talar fence cercar ferment fermentar fertilize (egg) fecundar fertilize (w/ fertilizer) fertilizar file limar fill llenar fill in rellenar 166 finance financiar finish terminar fit sentar fix reparar flatten aplanar flood inundar flower florecer fly volar force force freeze congelar fry freír fumigate fumigar furnish suministrar furrow surcar galvanize galvanizar garden trabajar el jardín germinate germinar gin despepitar glaze acristalar go to seed espigar graft injertar granulate granular grease engrasar grow cultivar / producir / sembrar grow (in age) crecer hail granizar hammer martillar handle manejar harden endurecer harrow gradar harvest cosechar hatch empollar head descabezar heat calentar hibernate hibernar hire emplear hitch enganchar / acoplar hoist alzar homogenize homogeneizar illuminate iluminar implant implantar import importar improve mejorar increase aumentar / incrementar industrialize industrializar infect infectar infest infestar inject inyectar insert insertar invest invertir irradiate irradiar irrigate irrigar / regar judge juzgar kick patear leach deslavar leak salir level igualar / nivelar lixiviate lixiviar loosen up mullir lop podar map cartografiar mature madurar mine minar mix mezclar moisten humectar / humedecer nail clavar 167 neglect descuidar nitrify nitrificar nurse amamantar operate operar orient orientar overfeed sobrealimentar overgraze pastoreo abusivo overgrow sobrecrecer paint pintar paralyze paralizar pasteurize pasteurizar pasture pastar / pastorear patent patentar peel pelar percolate infiltrar pick cosechar pick up recoger plan planificar plant plantar / sembrar plough arar plough in enterrar con arado / incorporar plough out arrancar con arado plow arar pot plantar en maceta pound golpear pre-germinate pregerminar pre-heat precalentar pre-soak remojar preserve conservar / preservar press prensar process elaborar produce producir propagate propagar / multiplicar protect proteger prune cortar / podar pull tirar / jalar pulverize pulverizar push empujar rain llover rake restrillar reduce reducir refill rellenar regrow rebrotar replace reponer replicate replicar reseed resembrar resist resistir rinse enjuagar ripen madurar roll rodar root echar raíz rot pudrir run (machine) andar rust oxidar sample probar saturate saturar saw serruchar scar cicatrizar scatter diseminar / distribuir scoop ahuecar scorch quemar screw atornillar seed sembrar select seleccionar sell vender settle asentarse shade sombrear sharpen afilar ship enviar shoot brotar 168 shower duchar shrivel encoger size medir slow down desacelerar soak in absorber solder soldar sort clasificar sow sembrar spin girar spoil deteriorar spray rociar spread esparcir sprinkle rociar / regar sprout brotar squeeze apretar stack apilar staple engrapar steam vaporizar sterilize esterilizar store almacenar strain colar stratify estratificar stretch estirar submerge sumergir subsidize subvencionar supply suministrar / proveer survive sobrevivir swallow tragar swell hinchar synthesize sintetizar thaw descongelar / deshelar tie amarrar till cultivar top despuntar top work reinjertar / sobreinjertar transpire transpirar transplant transplantar trench zanjar trim recortar try (effort) intentar try (flavor) probar turn off apagar turn on prender vaccinate vacunar ventilate ventilar / airear volatilize volatilizar wash lavar / limpiar water regar weed desmalezar wet mojar wilt marchitar windrow hacer hileras winter invernar work trabajar wrinkle arrugar 169 COMMON DISORDERS AND DISEASES DESORDENES Y ENFERMEDADES COMUNES abnormal anormal abnormal breathing respiración (f.) anormal abnormal color color (m.) anormal abscess absceso (m.) acne acné (m.) acoustic trauma trauma (m.) acústico acute agudo adenoma adenoma (m.) aluminosis aluminosis (f.) anaphylaxis anafilaxis (m.) anemia anemia (f.) anorexia anorexia (f.) anthracosis antracosis (m.) anthrax ántrax (m.) anxiety ansiedad apathy apatía (f.) asbestosis asbestosis (m.) asphyxia asfixia (f.) asthma asma (m.) ataxia ataxia (f.) atrophy of muscles atrofia (f.) muscular bad breath mal aliento (m.) baldness calvicie (f.) bauxite pneumoconiosis neumoconiosis (m.) por bauxita (f.) behavior conducta (f.) belching eructos (m.) black and blue moretones (m.) bleeding sangrando (m.) blemishes manchas (f.) blind spots puntos (m.) ciegos blindness ceguera (f.) blisters ampollas (f.) blood clot coágulo (m.) blood in the feces sangre (f.) en las heces fecales blood in the urine sangre (f.) en la orina bloodshot eye ojo (m.) inyectado bluish skin piel (f.) amoratada blurring vista (f.) nublada boil grano (m.) / comedón (m.) breathing respiración (f.) bronchiectasia bronquiectasia (f.) bronchiolitis bronquiolitis (f.) bronchitis bronquitis (f.) bronchopneumonia bronconeumonía (f.) brucellosis brucelosis (m.) burns quemaduras (m.) bursitis bursitis (m.) cancer cáncer (m.) carcinoma carcinoma (m.) cardiac arrest paro (m.) cardíaco cardiac arrhythmia arritmia (f.) cardíaca carpal tunnel syndrome síndrome (m.) del túnel (m.) carpiano cataract catarata (f.) chemical burns quemaduras (f.) químicas chills escalofríos (m.) choking sensation sensación (f.) de ahogo chronic crónico clotting of blood coagulación (f.) de la sangre cold stress estrés (m.) de frío coldness in extremities frialdad (f.) de manos (f.) y pies (m.) collapse colapso (m.) coma coma (m.) common cold catarro (m.) / resfriado (m.) congenital congénito constipation estreñimiento (m.) contractions contracciones (f.) convulsion convulsión (f.) 170 coordination coordinación cough tos (f.) cramps calambres (m.) cross-eye bizquera (f.) cyanosis cianosis (f.) cyst quiste (m.) dandruff caspa (f.) deafness sordera (f.) deformity deformidad (f.) dehydration deshidratación (f.) delirium delirio (m.) depression depresión (f.) dermatitis dermatitis (f.) diarrhea diarrea (f.) difficulty breathing dificultad (f.) al respirar difficulty in swallowing dificultad (f.) al tragar difficulty inhaling dificultad (f.) al aspirar dilated pupil dilatación (f.) de la pupila discharge supuración (f.) discomfort molestia (f.) distortion distorsión (f.) dizziness mareo (m.) double vision visión (f.) doble drowsiness visión (f.) doble dry mouth boca (f.) seca dysfunction desorden (f.) / trastorno (f.) dyspnea disnea (f.) dysuria disuria (f.) earache dolor (m.) de oído echoing sounds repetición (f.) de sonidos (m.) eczema eczema (f.) edema edema (f.) emotional instability inestabilidad (f.) emocional emphysema enfisema (m.) enlargement agradamiento (m.) exhaustion agotamiento (m.) eyeball globo (m.) ocular fainting desmayo (m.) farmer´s lung pulmón (m.) de granjero fatigue cansancio (m.) excesivo / fatiga (f.) fever fiebre (f.) / calentura (f.) fibrosis fibrosis (f.) flash blindness ceguera (f.) por destello flushing rubor (m.) folliculitis foliculitis (f.) foul breath aliento (m.) fétido frostbite quemadura (f.) de frío (m.) / congelación (f.) gangrene gangrena (f.) gingivitis gingivitis (f.) hard nodules nódulos (m.) endurecidos headache dolor (m.) de cabeza (f.) hearing loss pérdida (f.) de la audición heart attack ataque (m.) al corazón (m.) heart pain dolor (m.) en el corazón (m.) heart palpitation palpitación (f.) del corazón (m.) heartbeat latido (m.) del corazón (m.) heat exhaustion agotamiento (m.) por el calor heat stress estrés (m.) por el calor heat stroke insolación (f.) hemoptysis hemoptisis (f.) hemorrhage hemorragia (f.) hepatitis hepatitis (f.) herpes herpes (m.) hissing in the ears zumbido (m.) en los oídos (m.) hoarseness ronquera (f.) hypertension hipertensión (f.) hypertrophy hipertrofia (f.) idiopathic idiopático (m.) 171 immunity inmunidad (f.) incontinence incontinencia (f.) indigestion indigestión (f.) infection infección (f.) infestation infestación (f.) inflammation inflamación (f.) insensibility insensibilidad (f.) insomnia insomnio (m.) / desvelo (m.) intense pain dolor (m.) intenso / agudo irradiating pain dolor (m.) que se corre jaundice ictericia (f.) keratitis queratitis (f.) kyphosis cifosis (f.) lack of appetite falta (f.) de apetito lesion lesión (f.) lethargy letargo (m.) leukemia leucemia (f.) leukocytosis leucocitosis (f.) leukopenia leucopenia (f.) limping cojera (f.) listlessness falta (f.) de ánimo / apatía lockjaw mandíbula (f.) cerrada locked knee rodilla (f.) bloqueada lordosis lordosis (f.) loss of appetite pérdida (f.) del apetito (m.) loss of balance pérdida (f.) del equilibrio (m.) loss of consciousness pérdida (f.) del conocimiento (m.) loss of coordination pérdida (f.) de la coordinación (f.) loss of feeling pérdida (f.) del sentido (m.) del tacto loss of peripheral vision pérdida (f.) de la visión (f.) periférica loss of vision pérdida (f.) de la vista (f.) lumps masas (f.) malaise malestar (m.) malignant maligno memory loss pérdida (f.) de la memoria (f.) mental ability impairment deterioro (m.) de la habilidad (f.) mental metastasis metástasis (f.) miosis miosis (f.) muscle contractions contracciones (f.) musculares muscular uncoordination falta (f.) de coordinación (f.) muscular nausea náusea (f.) neoplasm neoplasma (m.) neural loss pérdida (f.) de neuronas (f.) neuritis neuritis (f.) neurodermatosis neurodermatosis (f.) night blindness ceguera (f.) nocturna noise-induced hearing loss pérdida (f.) de la audición (f.) por el ruido numbness entumecimiento (m.) obstruction obstrucción (f.) oncogenic oncogénico oozing excreción (f.) organic disease enfermedad (f.) orgánica otitis media otitis (f.) medio otosclerosis otosclerosis (f.) pain dolor (m.) painful swelling hinchazón (m.) doloroso paleness palidez (f.) pallor palidez (f.) palpitations palpitaciones (f.) papilloma papiloma (m.) papule pápula (m.) paralysis parálisis (m.) peeling of the skin descamación (m.) de la piel pins and needles sensation cosquilleo (f.) / hormigueo (f.) pleurisy pleuresía (f.) pneumoconiosis neumoconiosis (f.) pneumonitis neumonitis (f.) 172 polycythemia policitemia (f.) profuse sweating sudor (f.) excesivo prominence of blood vessels prominencia (f.) de vasos capilares (m.) puffiness abotagamiento (f.) pulmonary edema edema (m.) pulmonar pulmonary infarction infarto (m.) pulmonar pulmonary tuberculosis tuberculosis pulmonar rapid heartbeat latidos (m.) rápidos rash erupción (f.) / ronchas (f.) red spots manchas (f.) rojas relapse recaída (f.) restlessness intranquilidad (f.) rheumatism reumatismo (m.) rhinitis rinitis (f.) rickettsia ricketsia (f.) rigidity rigidez (f.) ringing in the ears zumbido (m.) en los oídos (m.) salivation, excessive salivación (f.) excesiva salmonella salmonela (f.) sarcoma sarcoma (m.) scab costra (f.) scotoma escotoma (m.) seborrhea seborrea (f.) seizures ataques (m.) / episodios (m.) semiconscious state estado (m.) semiconsciente septicemia septicemia (f.) severe pain dolor (m.) severo shock shock (m.) / choque (m.) shortness of breath falta de respiración (f.) silicosis silicosis (m.) silicotuberculosis silicotuberculosis (m.) skin discoloration cambio (f.) del color (f.) de la piel sneezing estornudo (m.) sore llaga (m.) sore throat dolor (f.) de garganta (f.) spasm espasmo (m.) speech difficulties trastornos (m.) del habla sterility esterilidad (f.) stiff neck cuello (m.) rígido stiffening rigidez (f.) stress estrés (m.) / tensión nerviosa (f.) subnormal temperature temperatura subnormal sweating sudor (m.) swelling hinchazón (f.) swelling of the feet hinchazón (f.) de los pies swelling of the hands hinchazón (f.) de las manos swollen joints articulaciones (f.) inflamadas tachycardia taquicardia (f.) tennis elbow / lateral epicondylitis codo (m.) de tenista / epicondilitis (f.) lateral tenosynovitis tenosinovitis (f.) tingling cosquilleo (m.) tinnitus zumbido (m.) tremor temblor (m.) / estremecimiento (m.) tremor of the hands temblor (m.) de las manos (f.) tremor of the lips temblor (m.) de los labios (m.) tuberculosis tuberculosis (m.) tularemia tularemia (f.) tumor tumor (m.) twitch sacudida (f.) nerviosa ulcer úlcera (f.) unconsciousness pérdida (f.) del conocimiento (m.) unresponsiveness sin dar de sí urticaria / hives urticaria (f.) vasoconstrictive vasoconstrictivo vertigo vértigo (m.) vomit vómito (m.) wart / verruca verruga (f.) weakness debilidad (f.) 173 weight gain aumento (m.) de peso (m.) weight loss pérdida (f.) de peso (m.) work stress estrés (m.) de trabajo yawning bostezo (m.) 174 COMMON OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES LESIONES OCUPACIONALES COMUNES NATURE OF INJURIES GENERO DE LESIONES abrasions, scratches raspaduras (f.) amputations amputaciones (f.) / desmembramientos (m.) asphyxia, suffocation asfixia (f.), sofocación (f.) back pain, hurt back dolor de espalda (f.), espalda (f.) lastimada bacterial diseases enfermedades (f.) bacterianas (f.) bruises, contusions magulladuras (f.), contusiones (f.) burns quemaduras (f.) bursitis bursitis (f.) carpal tunnel syndrome síndrome (m.) del túnel (m.) carpiano chemical burns quemaduras (f.) químicas circulatory system diseases enfermedades (f.) del sistema circulatorio (m.) crushing injuries lastimaduras (f.) por aplastamiento (m.) / trituración (f.) cuts, lacerations cortadas (f.), laceraciones (f.) damage to prosthetic devices daño (m.) a aparatos (m.) protéticos dermatitis dermatitis (f.) digestive system diseases and disorders enfermedades (m.) y trastornos (m.) del sistema digestivo (m.) diseases enfermedades diseases of the blood enfermedades (f.) de la sangre dislocation luxación (f.) / desviación (f.) disorders of the ear, hearing trastornos (m.) del oído (m.), audición (f.) disorders of the eye, adnexa vision trastornos (m.) del ojo (m.), visión (f.) adnexa disorders of the peripheral nervous system trastornos (m.) del sistema nervioso (m.) periférico disorders of the skin, subcutaneous tissue trastornos (m.) de la piel, tejidos (m.) subcutáneos dorsopathies dorsopatias (f.) effects of air pressure efectos (m.) de presión (f.) de aire (m.) effects of environmental conditions efectos (m.) de condiciones ambientales effects of heat and light efectos (m.) de calor (m.) y luz (f.) effects of reduced temperature efectos (m.) de temperaturas bajas electrocution, electric shock electrocución (f.), choque eléctrico (m.) exposure to disease exposición (f.) a enfermedad (f.) fracture fractura (f.) / rompimiento heat burns, scalds quemaduras (f.) térmicas, escaldadura hernias hernias (f.) infectious and parasitic diseases enfermedades (f.) infecciosas y parasitarias (m.) intercranial injuries lastimaduras (f.) intercraneales mental disorders trastornos (m.) mentales multiple injury and disease lesión (f.) y enfermedad múltiple multiple traumatic injuries lastimaduras (f.) traumáticas múltiples musculoskeletal, connective tissue enfermedades (f.) musculoesqueléticas neoplasms, tumors, and cancers neoplasmas (f.), tumores (m.), y canceres (m.) nervous system, sense organ diseases enfermedades (f.) del sistema nervioso (m.), órganos (m.) sensoriales open wounds heridas (f.) abiertas other rheumatism, except the back otros reumatismos (m.), excepto la espalda pneumoconiosis neumoconiosis (f.) poisonings, toxic effects envenenamiento (m.), efectos (m.) tóxicos punctures picaduras (f.) soreness, pain molestias (f.), dolor (m.) sprains, strains, tears torceduras (f.), estirones (m.), desgarramientos (f.) surface wounds heridas (f.) superficiales systemic diseases and disorders enfermedades (f.) y trastornos (m.) sistémicos tendinitis tendinitis (f.) tenosynovitis tenosinovitis (f.) toxic hepatitis hepatitis (f.) tóxica trauma to bones, nerves, spinal cord trauma (m.) a los huesos (f.), nervios (f.), medula espinal (f.) 175 traumatic injuries lesiones (f.) traumáticas tuberculosis tuberculosas viral diseases enfermedades (f.) virales viral diseases of the conjunctiva enfermedades (f.) virales de la conjuntiva viral hepatitis hepatitis (f.) viral TYPES OF ACCIDENTS TIPOS DE ACCIDENTES assaults by animals ataques por animales (m.) assaults, violence by persons ataques, violencia (f.) por personas bodily reaction and exertion reacción del cuerpo y esfuerzo bodily reaction reacción del cuerpo bending, climbing, reaching doblando, subiendo, alcanzando slip, loss of balance resbalón, pérdida del equilibrio walking, w/o other incident caminando, sin otro incidente overexertion sobre esfuerzo overexertion in holding, carrying sobre esfuerzo al sujetar, cargar overexertion in lifting sobre esfuerzo al levantar overexertion in pulling, pushing sobre esfuerzo al jalar, empujar repetitive motion movimiento repetitivo grasping, moving objects agarrar, objetos (m.) movibles repetitive use of tools uso repetido de herramienta (f.) typing or key entry mecanografía of tecleado caught in collapsing material atrapado por material en derrumbe caught in equipment, objects atrapado en equipo, objetos caught in running equipment atrapado en equipo en marcha contact with objects, equipment contacto con objetos, equipo explosion explosión (m.) exposure to harmful substances exposición a sustancias nocivas contact electric current contacto con energía (f.) eléctrica contact temperature extreme contacto con temperaturas (f.) extremas exposure to caustic, noxious substance exposición a sustancias (f.) cáusticas (f.), nocivas (f.) exposure to noise exposición a ruido (m.) exposure to traumatic event exposición a evento (m.) traumático falls caídas fall down stairs or step caída por escaleras (f.) of escalón fall from floor, ground level caída del piso (m.), nivel (m.) de suelo fall from ladder caída de escalera (f.) fall from nonmoving vehicle caída desde vehículo (m.) parado fall from piled, stacked material caída desde material (f.) apilado, amontonado fall from roof caída desde techo (m.) fall from scaffold, staging caída desde andamio (m.) fall on same level caída al mismo nivel (m.) fall onto or against objects caída a o contra objetos (m.) fall to floor, other surface caída al piso (m.), otra superficie fall to lower level caída a nivel (m.) inferior jump to lower level salto a nivel (m.) inferior fire fuego (m.) 176 rubbed, abraded by friction roce, raspado por fricción kneeling on a surface arrodillado sobre una superficie rubbed by matter in eye roce por materia en el ojo rubbed, jarred by vibration roce, sacudida por vibración struck against an object choque contra un objeto struck a moving object choque contra un objeto móvil struck a stationary object choque contra un objeto estacionario struck by an object golpe por un objeto struck by a falling object golpeado por objeto en desplome struck by flying object golpeado por objeto volante struck by swinging object golpeado por objeto columpiante transportation accidents accidentes de transporte aircraft accident accidente de avión (m.) collision between vehicles choque entre automóviles (m.) highway accident accidente en calle (f.) / carretera noncollision accident accidente sin choque nonhighway accident accidente no en calle (f.) / carretera (f.) pedestrian struck by vehicle peatón atropellado por vehiculo (m.) railway accident accidente ferroviario water vehicle accident accidente de vehiculo (m.) marino 177 CONSTRUCTION – CONSTRUCCIÓN GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES apartments apartamentos (m.) arch arco (m.) architecture arquitectura (f.) basilica basílica (f.) building edificio (m.) building permit permiso de construir (m.) cathedral catedral (f.) church iglesia (f.) city block cuadra (f.) colonnade columnata (f.) column columna (f.) condominiums condominios (m.) elevation elevación (f.) excavation excavación (f.) foundations cimientos (m.) green belt zona verde (f.) house casa (f.) monument monumento (m.) palace palacio (m.) plan plano (m.) prefabricate prefabricar scaffold andamio (m.) scaffolding andamios (m.) / andamiaje (m.) scale escala (f.) skyscraper rascacielos (m.) temple templo (m.) to build / to construct construir / edificar to lay the foundations echar los cimientos (m.) tower torre (f.) urban planning planeo urbano (m.) MACHINES MÁQUINAS backhoe retroexcavadora (f.) belt conveyor banda (f.) transportadora bulldozer tractor (m.) de oruga (f.) caterpillar tractor (m.) de oruga (f.) compressor compresora (f.) concrete mixer mezcladora (f.) / hormigonera (f.) de concreto (m.) conveyor belt banda (f.) transportadora crane grúa (f.) crawler dozer tractor (m.) de orugas (f.) ditch digger zanjadora (f.) drywall mud masher amasadora (f.) para juntas (f.) dump truck volqueadora (f.) engine motor (m.) excavator excavadora (f.) forklift montacargas (f.) front weights contrapesos (m.) generator generador (m.) hitch command control (m.) de enganche (m.) horizontal directional driller perforadora (f.) direccional horizontal hydraulic control control (m.) hidráulico jiffler mixers amasadoras (f.) instantáneas jiffy mud and resin mixers amasadoras (f.) instantáneas de barro (m.) y resinas (m.) land plane / steamroller niveladora (f.) / aplanadora (f.) mini-excavator mini-excavadoras (f.) mortar mixer amasadora (f.) oxyacetylene torch soplete (m.) oxiacetilénico (m.) pick-up truck camioneta (f.) plaster mortar mixer amasadora (f.) de mortero (m.) de yeso (m.) power drill perforadora (f.) eléctrica (f.) power take off (PTO) toma (f.) de fuerza (f.) powershift transmisión (f.) scaffold andamio (m.) scraper escrepa (f.) stationary mixer mezcladora (f.) / hormigonera (f.) estacionaria tilting mixer amasadora (f.) basculante tool carrier cargadora (f.) de herramienta 178 tractor tractor (m.) trencher zanjadora (f.) truck camión (m.) / camión (m.) de carga (f.) truck mixer mezcladora (f.) / hormigonera (f.) sobre camión (m.) uniloader minicargadora (f.) wheel loaders cargadora (f.) frontal MATERIALS MATERIALES abrasive abrasivo (m.) abutment estribo (m.) de puente abutting joint junta (f.) a tope accelerator acelerador (m.) acoustical material material (m.) acústico adhesive adhesivo (m.) admixture agregado (m.) adobe adobe (m.) aerated concrete concreto (m.) aireado aggregate áridos (m.) air brick ladrillo (m.) hueco air-entrained concrete concreto (m.) celular aluminum foil insulation aluminio (m.) para aislamiento (lámina (f.) de) anchor anclaje (m.) anchor blocks macizos (m.) de anclaje anchor bolts pernos (m.) de anclaje anchor plates placa (f.) de anclaje angle iron angular (m.) anhydrous lime cal (f.) anhidra annealed wire alambre (m.) recocido annunciator wire alambre (m.) guía arch brick ladrillo (m.) abovedado armored cable cable (m.) armado armored wood madera (f.) armada artificial marble mármol (m.) artificial asbestine asbestina (f.) asbestos asbesto (m.) asbestos cement asbesto (f.) cemento (f.) asbestos lumber amianto (m.) prensado asphalt asfalto (m.) automatic time switch apagador (m.) / interruptor (m.) automático backing brick ladrillo (m.) de relleno bar barra (f.) bar handle empuñadura (f.) de barra (f.) base coat capa (f.) base (f.) battery batería (f.) beaded joint junta (f.) achaflanada beam, girder viga (f.) beam hanger estribo (m.) de viga (f.) bearing plate placa de asiento (vigas) bent bar barra (f.) curva bevel washer rondana (f.) / arandela (f.) achaflanada blown joint junta (f.) soldada con soplete boiled oil aceite (m.) de linaza (f.) cocido bottom rail cabio (m.) bajo box frame bastidor (m.) de cajón brace jabalcón (m.) bracketing armadura (f.) interior (m.) de una cornisa (f.) braided wire hilo (m.) trenzado brick ladrillo (m.) / tabique (m.) bridging joist jácena (f.) brownstone arenisca (f.) ferruginosa builder´s acid acido (m.) par alimpiar ladrillos (m.) builder´s staging andamiaje (m.) pesado building block bloque (m.) building brick ladrillo (m.) de construcción (f.) building stone piedra (m.) de construcción (f.) bulkhead mampara (f.) bull header ladrillo (m.) aplantillado burglar alarm alarma (f.) contra ladrones (m.) bus bar barra (f.) colectora butt hinge bisagra (f.) plana butt joint junta (f.) recta 179 cabinet work ebanistería (f.) cable cable (m.) cable attachments cables (m.) de enganche (m.) cage jaula (f.) calcium carbonate carbonato cálcico (m.) calcium chloride cloruro cálcico (m.) caliduct caliducto (m.) calking compound masilla (f.) de calafatear cant brick ladrillo (m.) con bisel cantilever viga (f.) en voladizo cantilever joists viguetas (f.) en ”cantilever” capping brick ladrillo (m.) de coronación (f.) carbolineum carbolineum (m.) carpet strip felpudo (m.) de puerta (f.) cartridge fuse fusible (m.) de cartucho (m.) case bastidor (m.) casement molding escocia (f.) casing marco (m.) catch pestillo (m.) caulking calafeteado (m.) ceiling joists viguetas (f.) de techo (m.) ceiling light lámpara (f.) de techo (m.) ceiling tiles paneles de techo cement cemento (m.) cement paste pasta (f.) de cemento (m.) chain cadena (f.) chain tongs llave (f.) de cadena (f.) check list hoja (f.) de comprobación chimney blocks bloques (m.) para conducción de humos (m.) chimney cap caperuza (f.) cinder block bloque (m.) de cenizas (m.) cinder concrete concreto (m.) de cenizas (f.) circuit breaker interruptor (m.) clamping plate junta (f.) de conexión (f.) clay arcilla (f.) clay shale arcilla (f.) esquistosa cleanout registro (m.) cleat wiring grapas (f.) para tendido de cable (m.) cluster lamp lámpara (f.) de brazos (m.) coarse aggregate gravilla (f.) cob ladrillo (m.) crudo cold-drawn steel acero (m.) estirado en frío (m.) cold joint junta (f.) de trabajo (m.) cold weather concreting concretado (m.) en tiempo (m.) frío (m.) column columna (f.) column anchorage anclajes (m.) de pilares (m.) compound mastic (m.) compression bars barras (m.) de compresión concrete concreto (m.) concrete mixer mescladora (f.) / hormigonera (f.) conduit box / pull box caja (f.) de derivación (f.) conduit bushing manguito (m.) de conducto (m.) convector radiator radiador (m.) por convección coolant fluido (m.) refrigerante coping brick ladrillo (m.) de albardilla coping frame armazón (m.) de sierra (f.) caladora copper clout nail tacha (f.) de cobre (m.) copper plating cobreado (m.) galvánico cork tiles losetas (f.) de corcho (m.) corner angle ángulo (m.) (abrazadera (f.)) corner boards angulares de madera (f.) cornetite metal (m.) desplegado para esquinas (f.) corrugated glass, plastic or metal material (m.) ondulado corrugated iron hierro (m.) ondulado (m.) / placa (f.) ondulada corrugated iron fasteners afianzador (m.) de acero (m.) corrugado corrugated material material (m.) corrugado coulisse madera (f.) acanalada cover plate platabanda (f.) covered joint junta (f.) a media madera (f.) creosote creosota (f.) cushion head falso pilote (m.) cutter ladrillo (m.) blando cylinder ring rondana (f.) / arandela (f.) para cerradura (f.) de husillo (m.) 180 dead bolt cerrojo (m.) muerto deadman macizo (m.) de anclaje (m.) deck paint pintura (f.) para cubiertas (f.) deck roof azotea (f.) deformed bar acero (m.) corrugado dentil band moldura (f.) denticulada door puerta (f.) door pull tirador (m.) de puerta (f.) door stop tope (m.) de puerta (f.) door switch apagador (m.) / interruptor (m.) de puerta (f.) doorcase jambaje (m.) doorjamb jamba (f.) de puerta (f.) doorplate placa (f.) para puerta (f.) dope material (m.) absorbente dowel pitón (m.) drain dren (m.) (tubería (f.)) drawer pull tirador (m.) de cajón (m.) dressed lumber madera (f.) cepillada drip mold moldura de goterón drop siding forrado (m.) de tablas (f.) solapadas drop wire acometida (f.) dry lumber madera (f.) seca ducts conductos (m.) duplex cable cable (m.) doble duplex lock cerrojo (m.) doble dwarf rafter cabio (m.) corto edge joint junta (f.) angular electrode electrodo (m.) elevator elevador (m.) / ascensor (m.) enclosed fuse fusible (m.) encerrado end lap joint unión (f.) a media madera (f.) engineer´s brick ladrillo (m.) prensado entrance switch apagador (m.) / interruptor (m.) de servicio expansion sleeve manguito (m.) de dilatación expansion strip material (m.) para junta (f.) de dilatación exposed aggregate concreto (m.) con árido (m.) visto eyebolt cáncamo (m.) face side lado (m.) de cara (f.) face joint junta (f.) de fachada (f.) face veneer hoja (f.) exterior (contrachapado) faience barro (m.) vidriado false rafter cabio (m.) falso female plug enchufe (m.) hembra fill-type insulation aislamiento (m.) por relleno filler material (m.) de relleno fine aggregates árido (m.) fino finish coat capa (f.) de acabado finish hardware ferretería (f.) de acabado finishing varnish barniz (m.) de acabado fire clay arcilla (f.) refractaria firebrick ladrillo (m.) refractario fittings accesorios (m.) flange ala (m.) flexible cable cable (m.) flexible flexible insulation aislamiento (m.) flexible flood lights lámpara (f.) de alta intensidad floor plug enchufe (m.) de piso (m.) fluorescent lighting iluminación (f.) fluorescente flush switch apagador (m.) / interruptor (m.) empotrado flux fundente (m.) foot bolt falleba (m.) de pie form oil aceite (m.) para encofrados forms encofrados (m.) foundation bolt anclaje (m.) de cimentación framework armazón (m.) fresh concrete concreto (m.) fresco fret greca (f.) furnishings herrajes (m.) fuse fusible (m.) fuse box caja (f.) de fusibles (m.) fuse link fusible (m.) (elemento (m.)) fuse strip fusible (m.) de cinta (f.) 181 fuse wire alambre (m.) para fusible (f.) fusestat fusible (m.) “S” girder supports / girder posts apoyos (m.) de viga (f.) glass stop junquillo (m.) para cristales (m.) glazier´s putty masilla (f.) de cristalero glue water agua (m.) de cola (f.) gravel grava (f.) green lumber madera (f.) verde grindstone piedra (f.) de afilar grout enlechado (m.) hanging scaffold andamio (m.) colgante hardboard madera (f.) prensada hardened concrete concreto (m.) endurecido hardwood madera (f.) dura harsh concreto (m.) pobre heavyweight concrete concreto (m.) de árido (m.) grueso hempseed oil aceite (m.) de semilla (f.) de cáñamo (m.) hinge bisagra (f.) hollow concrete block bloque (m.) hueco (m.) de cemento (m.) hollow core door puerta (f.) con hueco (m.) aislante (m.) hone piedra (f.) de aceite (m.) hopper frame bastidor (m.) de ventanillo hot weather concreting concretado en tiempo caluroso housed brace jabalcón (m.) empotrado (m.) housing empotrado (m.) insulating concrete concreto (m.) aislante (m.) insulation blanket mantel (m.) insulator aislador (m.) interior wiring cableado (m.) interior (m.) iron expansion shield anclaje (m.) de expansión (f.) jamb jamba (f.) jambstone jamba (f.) de piedra (f.) joint junta (f.) joint runner junta (f.) de soldadura (f.) joist anchor anclaje (m.) de vigueta (f.) joist hangers estribos (m.) para vigueta (f.) jumbo brick ladrillo (m.) jumbo junction box caja (f.) de conexión (f.) kellastone / French stucco estuco (m.) francés king closer ladrillo (m.) de caja (f.) knob-and-tube wiring instalación (f.) eléctrica provisional knob insulator aislante (m.) de porcelana (f.) knuckle joint junta (f.) de mansarda label label (m.) lacquer laca (f.) lagging forro (m.) de tablones (m.) laminate lamina (f.) laminated rafter cabio (m.) laminado laminated wood madera (f.) laminada lamp lámpara (f.) lath malla (f.) metálica lead screw anchor anclaje (m.) de tornillo (m.) de avance leads cables (m.) conductores (m.) limestone piedra (m.) caliza linseed oil aceite (m.) de linaza (f.) loose-fill insulation aislamiento (m.) de relleno (m.) lumber madera (f.) lumber / timbers maderaje (m.) machine bolts pernos (m.) roscados male plug enchufe (m.) macho marble mármol (m.) marbling marmolado (m.) mastics mastiques (m.) mesh obra (f.) de malla (f.) metal strip banda (f.) metálica metal ties anclajes (m.) de metálicos 182 metallic insulation aislamiento (m.) metálico mineral aggregate árido (m.) mineral mineral wool lana (m.) mineral modular brick ladrillo (m.) modular molding moldura (f.) Molly expansion anchor anclaje (m.) de expansión tipo Molly mortar argamasa (f.) mortar sand arena (f.) para mortero nailing block apoyo (m.) para clavazón natural aggregates áridos (m.) naturales nipple manguito (m.) roscado normal weight concrete concreto (m.) de peso normal oil varnish barniz (m.) de aceite (m.) old wood madera (f.) de derribo outlet box caja (f.) (electricidad) padding (solder) almohadillado painter´s putty masilla (f.) de pintor panel forms encofrado (m.) de cimientos permeability agent agentes (m.) de permeabilidad picture rail banquetilla (f.) de friso pier estribo (m.) pintles apoyo (m.) metálico pipe fittings accesorios (m.) para tubos (m.) pipe hangers perchas (f.) para tubos (m.) pipes cañería (f.) plain concrete concreto (m.) en masa (f.) plain-sawed wood madera (f.) en tablones (m.) plaster yeso (m.) / mortero (m.) plastic anchors anclajes (m.) de plástico (m.) plastic concrete concreto (m.) plástico (m.) plastic tile piezas (f.) especiales de plástico (m.) plastics plásticos (m.) plate placas (f.) de apoyo plug enchufe (m.) plywood madera (f.) contrachapada pocket door puerta (f.) corredera post-tensioned concrete concreto (m.) postensado precast concrete concreto (m.) prefabricado preservative agente (m.) de conservación (madera) pressed brick ladrillo (m.) agramilado prestressed concrete concreto (m.) pretensado (m.) priming coat capa (f.) tapaporos pull switch apagador (m.) / interruptor (m.) de cordón pumice polvo (m.) de pómez putlog almojaya (f.) putty in plastering mastique (m.) para enlucidos de yeso quick lime cal viva (f.) radiating brick ladrillo (m.) adovelado rafter cabio (m.) rail barandilla (f.) rail bolt anclaje (m.) de barandilla railing barandilla (f.) y balaustres ratchet hoist elevador (m.) por trinquete rawplug anchor anclaje (m.) tipo ramplu ready-mix concrete concreto (m.) preamasado rectangular tie anclaje (m.) rectangular reflective insulation aislamiento (m.) reflectante refractory brick ladrillo (m.) refractario reinforced concrete concreto (m.) armado reinforcing bars armadura (f.) rigging cableado (m.) rolling scaffold andamio (m.) movible roof framing armazón (m.) de tejado roof truss armadura (f.) de cubierta rubbing varnish barniz (m.) de frotar rubble concrete concreto (m.) de mampuestos sand arena (f.) sandstone arenisca (f.) 183 sash marco (m.) de ventana sash lift elevador (m.) de ventana scaffold andamio (m.) scagliola estuco de mármol septic tank fosa (f.) séptica sewer alcantarilla (f.) shelf angles angular (m.) de asiento shotcreting concreto (m.) bombeado show rafter cabio (m.) visto siding forrado (m.) slag concrete concreto (m.) de escorias slaked lime cal (f.) apagada slate pizarra (f.) sliding door puerta (f.) de corredera sliding sash bastidor (m.) corredizo smoke alarm alarma (f.) contra humo snap-off-anchor anclaje (m.) de golpe único softwood madera (m.) de coníferas solder aleación (f.) para soldar splayed brick ladrillo (m.) alfeizado splice box caja (f.) de empalmes split bolt connector bifurcador (m.) springwood madera (f.) de primavera squared splice junta (f.) escuadrada stainless steel acero (m.) inoxidable star dryvin anchor anclaje (m.) expansión de estrella stucco estuco (m.) subrail apoyo (m.) inferior de balaustres sway brace arriostramiento (m.) transversal swing stage scaffold andamio (m.) suspendido y oscilante T hinge bisagra (f.) en T T plate placa (f.) en T test light lámpara (f.) testigo three-prong plug enchufe (m.) macho de tres patillas tie wire alambre (m.) de atado tile azulejo (m.) timber connectors fijadores (m.) para madera (f.) transit-mixed concrete concreto (m.) amasado durante el trasporte tread huella (f.) de escalón (m.) tremie concreto (m.) bajo el agua con tolva de vertido trestle scaffold andamio (m.) de caballete truss clips grapas (f.) para cerchas tubing cañería (f.) tubular scaffolds andamiaje (m.) tubular valley jack cabio (m.) de lima hoya vapor / moisture barrier barrera (f.) antihumedad varnish barniz (m.) vinyl sheet hojas / láminas de vinilo waffle flat plate construction concretado (m.) en dos direcciones wall muro (m.) wall anchor anclaje (m.) para muro wall box caja (f.) en un muro walling material (m.) para tejado washer rondana (f.) / arandela (f.) water putty masilla (m.) de carpintero wiring instalaciones (m.) eléctricas (f.) wood madera (f.) x-brace arriostramiento (m.) en x PEOPLE GENTE architect arquitecto bricklayer albañil builder constructor civil engineer ingeniero civil crane driver operador de grúa draftsman dibujante electrician electricista foreman capataz glazier vidriero joiner ebanista / carpintero 184 mason albañil master builder maestro de obras painter pintor (a) plasterer yesero plumber plomero / fontanero welder soldador RESIDENTIAL RESIDENCIAL air-conditioned con aire (m.) acondicionado air conditioning aire acondicionado (m.) attic desván (m.) balcony terraza (f.) baluster balustre (m.) basement sótano (m.) bathroom baño (m.) bathroom tile azulejo (m.) bathtub tina (f.) beam viga (f.) bedroom recamara (f.) blinds persianas (f.) bolt guide corredera (f.) bracket ménsula (f.) brick arch dovela de ladrillo (f.) bull´s eye window ojo de buey butt-strap cubrejunta (f.) carpet alfombra (f.) casing chambrana (f.) ceiling techo (m.) central heating calefacción central (f.) cheek pared lateral (f.) chimney cowl caperuza (f.) chimney stack cañon (m.) coffer artesón (m.) cold frío (m.) connections conexiones (f.) coping remate (m.) cornice cornisa (f.) crossbar barra transversal (f.) crosspiece travesaño (m.) dining room comedor (m.) door puerta (f.) door frame marco (m.) double door puerta de dos hojas (f.) drainpipe bajada de agua (f.) electricity electricidad (f.) elevating door puerta elevadiza (f.) elevator elevador (m.) elevator shaft hueco del elevador filling point relleno (m.) fire escape ladder escalera de incendios (f.) fireback trashoguero (m.) fireplace chimenea (f.) fireplace screen cortina metálica (f.) fixtures, furnishings accesorios (m.) flagstone flooring enlozado (m.) flight of steps escalinata (f.) floor piso (m.) floor tile loza (f.) floorboard entarimado (m.) flooring revestimiento del suelo (m.) frame durmiente (m.) freight elevator elevador (m.) de servicio French flooring entarimado (m.) a la francesa French window puerta vidriera (f.) fronton frontón (m.) gas gas (m.) ground toma de tierra (f.) 185 ground floor planta baja (f.) gutter canalón (m.) hall pasillo (m.) handle (door) manija (f.) handrail barandal (m.) hardware (articles) herraje (m.) / artículos de ferretería (m.) hardware store ferretería (f.) hearth hogar (m.) heat calefacción (f.) heater (house) calentador (m.) heater (space) calentón (m.) heater (water) calentador (m.) de agua herringbone parquet entarimado (m.) en espinapez hipped end faldón (m.) hot caliente informal eating area antecomedor (m.) joist vigueta (f.) keystone clave (f.) kitchen cocina (f.) laundry room lavandería (f.) leaf batiente (m.) light switch interruptor de luz (m.) lighting alumbrado (m.) lightning rod pararrayos (m.) lintel dintel (m.) living room sala (f.) main wall pared (f.) maestra mantel dintel (m.) mantel shelf repisa (f.) master bedroom recamara (f.) principal metal frame bastidor (m.) metálico mirror espejo (m.) molding moldura (f.) paneling (wood) revestimiento (m.) de madera (f.) pantry despensa (f.) parquet entarimado (m.) partition wall pared divisoria (f.) penthouse penthouse (m.) / ático (m.) pier entrepaño (m.) plain wood strip flooring entarimado (m.) a la inglesa plastering enyesado (m.) porch porche (m.) rabbet renvalso (m.) ramp rampa (f.) ridge cumbrera (f.) rolling shade persiana (f.) enrollable roof techo (m.) roof, flat azotea (f.) rug tapete (m.) shutters postigos (m.) sill antepecho (m.) sink lavabo (m.) fregadero (m.) skewback salmer (m.) skirting board zócalo (m.) skylight tragaluz (m.) sliding door puerta (f.) corredera slope vertiente (f.) splay derrame (m.) staircase escalera (f.) stairwell hueco (m.) de la escalera (f.) stringcourse hilada (f.) volada threshold umbral (m.) tile azulejo (m.) tile, ceiling paneles de techo 186 tile / roof tile teja (f.) tiled floor solado (m.) toothing stone adaraja (f.) truss armadura de la cubierta (f.) underlay arpillera (f.) valley lima hoya (f.) ventilation hole gatera (f.) ventilation shaft pozo (m.) de ventilación (f.) wall pared (f.) / muro water agua (m.) window ventana (f.) windowpane cristal (m.) TOOLS/EQUIPMENT/MACHINERY/HARDWARE HERRAMIENTA/EQUIPO/MAQUINARIA/HERRAJES abrasive paper papel (m.) abrasivo abrasive tools herramientas (m.) para abrasión adjustable key llave (m.) graduable adjustable triangle triángulo (m.) ajustable adjustable wrench llave (m.) inglesa adjusting-nut tuerca (f.) tensora adjusting screw tornillo (m.) de ajuste adze azuela (f.) adze block cabeza (f.) de azuela (f.) aggregate gun pistola (f.) de agregados aiguille aguja (f.) air brush pulverizador (m.) de aire comprimido aligning punch punzón (m.) de alinear aluminum nails clavos (m.) de aluminio ampere-hour meter contador (m.) de amperio-hora anchor bolt tornillo (m.) / perno (m.) de anclaje angle float paleta (f.) (llana (f.)) de ángulo angle gauge galga (f.) de ángulos angle paddle paleta (f.) de acabado de esquinas angle plane cepilladora (f.) angular angle plow paleta (f.) para esquinas angle tie / angle brace escuadra (f.) de esquina annular bit broca (f.) anular annular nails clavos (m.) anulares antichecking iron hierro (m.) de contraste arc welder soldadora (f.) de arco Arnott valve válvula (f.) de Arnott auger barrena (f.) auger bit boca (f.) de barrena (f.) automatic time switch interruptor (m.) automático auxiliary switch interruptor (m.) auxiliar awl punzón (m.) de madera ax hacha (m.) axhammer martillo (m.) de cantería backhoe retroexcavadora (f.) backsaw serrucho (m.) de costilla backwater flap válvula (f.) de charneta para reflujo backwater valve válvula (f.) de contracorriente badger brocha (f.) badger plane guillame (m.) de esquinar ball faucet válvula (f.) de flotador para llave ball peen hammer martillo (m.) de bola band saw sierra (f.) sinfín banjo tapers encintadora (f.) banjo bar clamp barra (f.) de mordaza (f.) bar handle empuñadura (f.) de barra barbed dowel pin clavija (f.) dentada barrel bolt cerrojo (m.) pasador batter rule eclímetro (m.) de suspensión bead chain cadena (f.) de rosario (m.) bead plane cepillo (m.) de astrágalo beading machine ribetadora (f.) beading tool marcador (m.) de astrágalos bearing (load) apoyo (m.) / asiento (m.) bearing (machine) cojinete (m.) / chumacera (m.) 187 belt conveyor cinta (f.) transportadora bench plane cepillo (m.) de banco (f.) bench saw sierra (f.) circular de mesa (f.) bevel square escuadra (m.) biselada bevel washer rondana (m.) / arandela (m.) achaflanda bib llave (m.) (grifo (f.)) de boca roscada bin tolva (f.) / depósito (m.) bit trépano (m.) bit brace berbiquí (m.) bit gauge tope (m.) de barrenas blast heater radiador (m.) de aire caliente block garrucha (f.) block and tackle aparejo (m.) de poleas (m.) block plane cepillo (m.) de contrafibra blowtorch lamparilla (f.) bolt tornillo (m.) / perno (m.) boom aguilón (m.) bottom bolt cerrojo (m.) de pie bow compass bigotera (f.) bow dividers compás (m.) de puntas box nails clavos (m.) para madera brace bit barrena (f.) de berbiquí (m.) brace measure escuadra (f.) de jabalcones brad punta (f.) bradawl buril (m.) brazier brasero (m.) breast drill berbiquí (m.) de pecho (m.) brick hammer martillo (m.) de enladrillar brick set cuchilla (f.) de corte para ladrillos brick trowel paleta (f.) (llana (f.)) / trulla (f.) browning brush cepillo (m.) salpicador brush cepillo (m.) builder´s tape cinta (f.) de medir bull dozer bulldozer (m.) bull-nose plane cepillo (m.) con cuchilla (f.) al frente bullet catch resbalón (m.) de bola butt gauge gramil (m.) para bisagras button-headed bolt tornillo (m.) de cabeza redonda buzz saw sierra (f.) de arco cabinet burnisher pulidora (f.) de ebanista cabinet file lima (f.) de ebanista cabinet latch tirador (m.) cabinet lock cerrojo (m.) de armario cabinet scraper rasqueta (f.) de ebanista caliper calibrador (m.) cant hook gancho (m.) maderero carpenter´s level nivel (m.) de carpintero cartridge fuse fusible (m.) de cartucho casement window fastener cerrojo (m.) de ventana de dos hojas casing nail clavo (m.) para contramarcos caster roldana (f.) catalyst additive gun pistola (f.) para aditivo catalizador catch bolt picaporte (m.) caulking gun pistola (f.) para calafateo caulking tool retacador (m.) cavil martillo (m.) de punta ceiling light lámpara (f.) de techo cement gun cañon (m.) lanza cemento (m.) cement stucco das brush cepillo (m.) de estuco (m.) de cemento (m.) center punch punzón (m.) de marcar chain cadena (f.) chain bolt cerrojo (m.) de cadena chain door fastener cerrojo (m.) de cadena para puerta chain tongs llave (f.) de cadena chalk line cordel (m.) entizado chamfer bit broca (f.) biseladora chamfer plane guillame (m.) de inglete check valve válvula (f.) de retención cheek of hammer cabeza (f.) de martillo (m.) chest pull empuñadura (f.) (muebles) chip ax doladera (f.) chuck mango (m.) chute canal (m.) / canalón (m.) de descarga 188 circuit breaker interruptor (m.) circular saw sierra (f.) circular city valve llave (f.) municipal clamp grapa (f.) clamping screw tornillo (m.) de sujeción classifier clasificador (m.) claw hammer martillo (m.) de orejas claw hatchet hachuela (f.) de oreja clay mill molino (m.) de arcilla clip presilla (f.) cold chisel contrafrío (m.) collar collar (m.) comb peine (m.) combination lock cerradura (f.) de combinación combination pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) graduables combination square herramienta (f.) combinada common nail clavo (m.) común compass plane cepillo (m.) redondo compass saw serrucho (m.) de marquetería concrete insert tornillo (m.) (perno (m.)) para cemento concrete mixer mezcladora (f.) concrete nails clavos (m.) para concreto (m.) / hormigón (m.) condensation pump bomba (m.) de condensación (f.) conduit bender curvadora (f.) de tubos cone crusher trituradora (f.) de conos (m.) conveyor transportador (m.) cooling tower torre (f.) de refrigeración coping saw sierra (f.) caladora corner chisel formón (m.) de ángulo corner trowel paleta (f.) (llana (f.)) de esquina corrugate box knife cuchilla (f.) para cartón-fibra crane grúa (f.) crank brace berbiquí (m.) de manubrio (m.) crapping plane cepillo (m.) de canal (m.) cremorne bolt cremona (f.) crosscut saw sierra (f.) de tumba crowbar palanca (f.) de pie de cabra crusher triturador (m.) cupboard button cerradura (f.) de manecilla (f.) curb edger bordeadora (f.) curb valve llave (f.) de cierre general cut nail clavo estampado cutting gauge gramil de cuchilla cutting pliers pinzas (alicates) de corte cylinder lock cerradura (f.) de husillo (m.) cylinder ring arandela (f.) para cerradura (f.) de husillo (m.) dead bolt cerrojo (m.) muerto dehumidifier deshumidificador (m.) derrick grúa (f.) de brazo retráctil derrick die dado dies combadora (f.) disc sander lijadora (f.) de disco distribution panel panel (m.) de distribución dog nail clavo (m.) de cabeza excéntrica door bell timbre (m.) door bolt cerrojo (m.) de puerta door nails clavos (m.) para puerta door stop tope (m.) de puerta door switch interruptor (m.) de puerta double headed nails clavos (m.) de cabeza doble dovetail cramps grapas (f.) en cola de milano dovetail saw serrucho (m.) para cola de milano dowel pin clavija (f.) draftsman´s scale escalímetro (m.) drag cucarda (f.) dragline excavator excavadora de arrastre (f.) drain faucet llave (f.) / grifo de purga drawer pull tirador (m.) de cajón drawing dibujo (m.) drawing board tablero (m.) de dibujo drawknife desbastadora (f.) dredge draga (f.) dresser maza (f.) de fontanero 189 drill taladradora (f.) drill bit broca (f.) drill point punta (f.) de broca drill saw sierra (f.) taladro drive screw / screw nail clavo-tornillo (m.) drop cord interruptor (m.) de cadena dryer secadora (f.) drywall hammer martillo (m.) para placas de yeso drywall joint tool paletín (m.) de juntas drywall mud masher amasadora (f.) de juntas duplex lock cerrojo (m.) doble dusting brush cepillo (m.) de delineante Dutch door bolt cerrojos (m.) de puerta tipo holandés economizer economizador (m.) elastic knife cuchillo (m.) elástico elbow catch pestillo (m.) electric glue gun pistola (f.) eléctrica de pegar electric hand sander pulidora (f.) eléctrica manual electric handsaw sierra (f.) portátil eléctrica electric portable tools herramientas (f.) de mano con motor eléctrico electric sander lijadora (f.) eléctrica electric screwdriver destornillador (m.) eléctrico electrician´s hammer martillo (m.) de electricista elevator elevador (m.) emery esmeril (m.) emery cloth tela (f.) de esmeril enclosed fuse fusible (m.) encerrado entrance switch interruptor (m.) de servicio eraser goma (f.) de borrar escutcheon pin clavo (m.) de escudo Essex board measure tabla (f.) Essex expansion bit barrena (f.) ajustable extension ruler regla (f.) extensible face hammer cotillo (m.) face of hammer cara (f.) de martillo (m.) facing hammer martillo (m.) de encarrujar fastener cerrojo (m.) fastening tools herramientas (f.) para unión faucet llave (f.) / espita (f.) / grifo feeder alimentador (m.) female plug enchufe (m.) hembra file lima (f.) finishing tools herramientas (f.) de repasar fireproofing machine máquina (f.) para ignifugación firmer tools formones (m.) flap valve válvula (f.) de mariposa flat-head wire brad clavo (m.) de cabeza de diamante flat-nose pliers pinzas (m.) (alicates (f.)) de doblar flexible curves reglas (m.) flexibles float talocha (f.) float valve válvula (f.) de flotador flood light lámpara (f.) de alta intensidad floor chisel escoplo (m.) arrancador floor sander lijadora (f.) de piso flush bolt cerrojo (m.) embutido flush switch interruptor (m.) empotrado flush valve válvula (f.) de aspersión flute reamer escariador (m.) de ranuras rectas folding ladder escalera (f.) plegable folding ruler regla (f.) plegable foldstir mixer mezcladora-amasadora (f.) foot bolt falleba (f.) de pie forklift montacargas (m.) forming machine perfiladora (f.) forming tool herramienta (f.) para perfilar forstner bit broca (f.) forstner framing sawhorse caballete de aserrado (m.) framing square gage cursores (m.) de escuadra de carpintero french window lock falleba (f.) de puerta cristalera fret saw sierra (f.) de compás friction catch resbalón (m.) fuse fusible (m.) 190 fuse link fusible (m.) / elemento (m.) fusible link eslabón (m.) fusible garden hose manguera (f.) gas metal-arc welder (MIG) soldadora (f.) con arco metálico gas pliers pinzas (f.) / alicates (m.) de gasista gas welding equipment equipo (m.) de soldadura (llama de gas) gasoline portable tools herramientas (f.) de mano con motor de gasolina gate valve válvula (f.) de compuerta gimlet barrena (f.) pequeña gin poles mástil-grúa (m.) glass cutter diamante (m.) de vidriero glazier´s chisel escoplo (m.) de vidriero glazier´s points puntas (f.) de cristalero glazing grads clavos (m.) de cristalero glitter gun pistola (f.) para colorear glove valve válvula (f.) esférica gloves guantes (m.) grader máquina (f.) niveladora graining comb peine (m.) de vetas grinder (crusher) trituradora (f.) grinder (sharpener) afilador (m.) grizzly / grate parrilla (f.) grozing iron lima (m.) de plomero grub saw sierra (f.) de marmolería guard protector (m.) gutter bolt abrazadera (f.) de canalón gypsum board nails clavos (m.) para paneles de yeso hacksaw segueta (f.) (sierra para metales) half-back bench saw sierra (f.) de medio lomo half hatchet media hacha (f.) half-round file lima (f.) de media caña hammer martillo (m.) hand brace berbiquí (m.) portátil hand drill taladradora (f.) de mano hand electric drill taladradora (f.) eléctrica portátil hand file lima (f.) plana hand groover acanaladora (f.) de mano hand lever punch punzonadora (f.) de mano hand screw tornillo (m.) de banco hand tools herramientas (f.) de mano handle manecilla (f.) handsaw serrucho (m.) hardware (doors, windows, furniture, decor) herrajes (m.) hatchet hacha (f.) de mano / destral (m.) heat pump bomba (f.) de calor (f.) heater calentador (m.) high alto (f.) high-limit control control (m.) de tolerancia máxima hold-down clamp abrazadera (f.) de freno hollow punch punzón (m.) sacabocados hook gancho (m.) hopper tolva (f.) horizontal lock cerradura (f.) horizontal hose bib llave / grifo para manguera humidifier humidificador (m.) hydraulic jack gato (m.) hidráulico hydraulic tools herramientas (f.) hidráulicas hydraulic valve válvula (f.) hidráulica idler polea loca (f.) / polea de guía (f.) impact crusher trituradora (f.) de impacto (m.) inert-gas metal-arc welder soldadora (f.) de arco a gas inerte inside angle tool paleta (m.) (llana) angular inside calipers compás (m.) para interiores insulating tape cinta (f.) aislante jack gato (m.) / gato de palanca jack plane garlopa (f.) jack truss cuchillo (m.) corto jackscrew gato (m.) de tornillo jaw crusher trituradora (f.) de mordaza (m.) jiffler mixers amasadoras (f.) instantáneas 191 jiffy mud and resin mixer amasadoras (f.) instantáneas de barro (m.) y resinas (f.) jig saw sierra (f.) alternativa vertical joint bolt tornillo (m.) / perno (m.) de chaveta jointer marcador (m.) de juntas jointer plane juntera (f.) jumper puente (m.) keyhole saw serrucho (m.) de calar kiln horno (m.) de materiales knife switch interruptor (m.) de palanca knob lock cerradura (f.) de perilla ladder escalera (f.) de mano ladder hook gancho (m.) de escala lag bolt tornillo (m.) de rosca de madera lag expansion shield tornillo (m.) de expansión latch cerrojo (m.) de barra lathe torno (m.) layout tee escuadra (f.) de cabios lead nails clavos (m.) para plomo leather gloves guantes (m.) de cuero level nivel (m.) leveling rod mira (f.) topográfica lever palanca (f.) light dimmer reductor (m.) de luz light fixture lámpara (f.) lime mixers mezcladora (f.) de cal line level nivel (m.) de línea link eslabón (m.) lock cerradura (f.) long (needle)-nose pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) de punta larga machine bolt tornillo (m.) (perno (m.)) roscado machine expansion shield tornillos (m.) de avance expansivos machine screws tornillos (m.) para metal male plug enchufe (m.) macho mallet maza (f.) marking awl punzón (m.) para marcar maderas marking gauge gramil (m.) masonry nail clavo (m.) para mampostería masonry saw sierra (f.) de mampostería master switch interruptor (m.) general maul maza (f.) de pilotes meter contador (m.) mortar board esparavel (m.) mortar mixer amasadora (f.) mortise chisel formón (m.) de mortaja mortise gauge gramil (m.) de mortaja mortise lock cerradura (f.) de mortaja / cerradura (f.) encajada mud holder esparavel (m.) para torta nail clavo (m.) nail gun grapadora (f.) neumática nail puller arranca (m.) clavos (m.) nail punch, brad punch botador (m.) nailer, nail gun martillo (m.) clavador nailing machine grapadora (f.) de pisos neck of hammer cuello (m.) de martillo night bolt cerrojo (m.) de noche nippers tenazas (f.) oakum estopa (f.) alquitranada outlet, plug enchufe (m.) de corriente oven horno (m.) oxyacetylene welder soldadora (f.) oxiacetilénica paint brush brocha (f.) paint dryer secador (m.) de pintura pattern-maker´s saw sierra (f.) de marquetería peavy palanca (f.) de gancho peen hammer martillo (m.) de peña peg espiga de ebanistería pen pluma (f.) pencil lápiz (m.) 192 pencil sharpener sacapuntas (m.) Phillips head screw destornillador (m.) de cabeza Phillips pike pole garrocha (f.) pile driver martinete (m.) pin almilla (m.) pincers tenacillas (f.) pipe cutter cortatubos (m.) pipe trowel paleta (f.) (llana) de tubo pipe vise tornillo (m.) para tubos pipe vise stand banqueta (f.) de fontanero pipe wrench llave (f.) para tubos pitch triangle triángulo (m.) de pendientes plane cepillo (m.) de carpintero plaster mortar mixer amasadora (f.) de mortero (m.) de yeso (m.) plasterboard nails clavos (m.) para cartón yeso plasterer´s knife cuchilla (f.) para mortero plasterer´s rubber sponge esponja (f.) de goma para enyesado plastering machine máquina (f.) de enyesado plastering spatula espátula (f.) de emplastecer platform plataforma (f.) platform (loading) cargadero (m.) / muelle de carga pliers pinzas (f.) / alicates (m.) plow cepillo (m.) ranurador plumb and level nivel (m.) de albañil plumb line hilo (m.) de plomada plumb rule nivel (m.) de perpendículo plunger desatascador (m.) pocket level nivel de bolsillo (m.) pointing trowel paletín (m.) powder-driven fastener pistola (f.) de cartuchos para fijación power hammer martillo (m.) mecánico power panel panel (m.) de alimentación power saw sierra (f.) eléctrica power trowel máquina (f.) extendedora de cemento prick punch granete (f.) pulley polea (f.) pump bomba (f.) punch punzón (m.) de metales quadrant cuadrante (m.) rab batidora (f.) rabbet plane guillame (m.) rabbeted lock cerradura (f.) embutida rack saw sierra (f.) de corte ancho radial bar compás (m.) de gran radio radial saw sierra (f.) de disco radiator radiador (m.) radius tool curvadora (m.) de barras de armadura raising hammer martillo (m.) de chapista rasp escofina (f.) ratchet bit brace berbiquí (m.) de trinquete (m.) ratchet drill carraca (f.) de palanca (f.) ratchet hoist elevador (m.) por trinquete ratchet nail clavo (m.) de trinquete reamer escariador (m.) reducing valve válvula (f.) reductora retractable tape measure cinta (f.) retráctil return idler rodillo (m.) de retorno (m.) rice brush cepillo (m.) de paja (f.) de arroz (m.) right-hand tool herramienta (f.) a derechas rim latch cerrojo (m.) al aire ripping bar sacaclavos (m.) ripsaw sierra (f.) de corte al hilo rivet set buterola (f.) riveting hammer martillo (m.) de remachar rivets remaches (m.) rod vara (f.) de medir roll type hand benders curvadora (m.) de tubos para EMT roofing nails clavos (m.) para tejado router tupi (m.) rubber gloves guantes (m.) de caucho (hule) ruler regla (f.) ruling pen tiralíneas (m.) 193 rung (ladder) peldaño (m.) (escalera de mano) safety hasp cerrojo (m.) de candado safety switch interruptor (m.) de seguridad salamander salamandra (f.) sand screw tornillo (m.) de arena (m.) sandpaper papel (m.) de lija sash fast falleba (f.) de ventana sash lift elevador (m.) de ventana sash plane cepillo (m.) rebajador saw sierra (f.) saw gullet fondo (m.) del diente saw set, swage triscador (m.) sawbuck banqueta (f.) de aserrado sawhorse banco (m.) de carpintero scarifier escarificador (m.) scraper descarnador (m.) scratcher rasqueta (f.) screens tela (f.) metálica (f.) screw tornillo (m.) screw clamp mordaza (f.) de tornillo screw jack gato (m.) de husillo screwdriver destornillador (m.) / desarmador (m.) scriber compás (m.) de carpintero scroll saw sierra (f.) de calar scrubber depuradora (m.) scutch, scotch cortadora (m.) de ladrillos seamer engatilladora (f.) serration sierra (f.) dentada setting hammer martillo (m.) estampador settling pond charco (m.) de asentamiento (m.) shears cizallas (f.) sheet-metal screws tornillos (m.) de metal shim, key cuña (f.) shingling hatchet hachuela (m.) para tejamanil shoulder tool bag caja (f.) de herramienta (f.) colgante sill faucet llave (f.) (grifo (m.)) de manguera single pole switch interruptor (m.) monopolar sink bib llave (f.) / grifo (m.) curva skinning knife cuchilla (f.) de electricista skip eskip (m.) / cestón (m.) sledgehammer martillo (m.) de dos manos slicker alisador (f.) sling eslinga (f.) small tools herramientas (f.) pequeñas snips tijeras (f.) para chapa fina socket chisel escoplo (m.) de casquillo solder gun pistola (f.) para soldadura soldering iron cautín (m.) solid punch punzón (m.) compacto spatula espátula (f.) spike clavo (m.) de retranca split ring collar (m.) partido spokeshave cepillo (m.) para superficies (f.) cóncavas spring latch cerrojo (m.) de vaivén square escuadra (f.) stapler grapadora (f.) staples grapas (f.) stationary mixer mezcladora (f.) estacionaria steel measuring tape cinta (f.) de acero steel square escuadra (f.) de acero steel wool estropajo (m.) de acero Stillson wrench llave (f.) Stillson stilts zancos (m.) stippling brush cepillo (m.) para picado stockpile reserva (f.) de existencia (f.) stonecutter´s chisel escoplo (m.) de cantería straight ladder escalera (f.) recta strap abrazadera (f.) strike block cepillo (m.) bocel strip fuse fusible (m.) de cinta sump pump bomba (f.) para sumidero (m.) T bevel falsa escuadra (f.) en T 194 T-square escuadra (f.) en T table saw sierra (f.) de mesa tack tachuela (f.) tackle aparejo de polipasto (m.) tail pulley polea (f.) de cola (f.) tang rabera (f.) tap macho (m.) de roscar tape (regular) cinta (f.) (regular) test light lámpara (f.) testigo three-prong plug enchufe (m.) macho de tres patillas three-way switch interruptor (m.) de tres posiciones tilting mixer mezcladora (f.) basculante timber carrier portatroncos (m.) tin snips tijeras (f.) de hojalatero tool belt cinturón (m.) de herramientas tool box caja (f.) de herramienta (f.) torque wrench llave (f.) dinamométrica track vía (f.) / linea (f.) / carril (f.) trammel compás (m.) de vara transit teodolito (m.) trowel paleta (m.) truck-mixer mezcladora (f.) sobre camión truss clips grapas (f.) para cerchas try square escuadra (f.) de comprobación tubular lock cerradura (f.) de pomos twist drill broca (f.) salomónica unbalanced back-flow valve válvula (f.) de contracorriente inestable vacuum pump bomba (f.) de vacío (m.) valve válvula (f.) veneer saw sierra (f.) para chapado vertical saw sierra (f.) vertical vibrator vibrador (m.) vise tornillo (m.) de carpintero vise grips mordazas (f.) de tornillo de carpintero wall pared (f.) water level nivel (m.) de agua wheelbarrow, dolly carretilla (f.) winch torno (m.) de elevación windlass polipasto (m.) window latch cerrojo (m.) de ventana wire brad clavo (m.) wire brush cepillo (m.) de alambre wire connectors conectores (m.) de cables eléctricos wire cutting pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) corta alambres wire gauge galga (f.) de alambre wiring cleats grapas (f.) para tendido de cable wood chisel formón (m.) wood ruler regla (f.) de madera workbench banco (m.) de trabajo wrench llave (f.) 195 VERBS VERBOS absorb absorber accelerate acelerar add agregar adhere adherir adorn adornar adsorb adsorber air out airear align alinear alter alterar analyze analizar anchor anclar angle angular assemble armar / ensamblar balance balancear bend doblar block bloquear board entablar brake frenar break romper brush cepillar calibrate calibrar cap tapar carry cargar cement cementar chain encadenar channel acanalar climb subir close cerrar color colorear compact compactar condense condensar conduct conducir connect conectar construct construir contract contraer control controlar cool enfriar count contar couple acoplar cover cubrir crack agrietar cut cortar defend defender deform deformar dehydrate deshidratar deposit depositar desiccate desecar design diseñar detail detallar dig escarbar disintegrate desintegrar dismount desmontar dissolve disolver draft tirar drain desaguar draw dibujar drill taladrar dry secar economize economizar edge bordear elevate elevar enrich enriquecer evaporate evaporar expand expandir extend extender feed alimentar filter filtrar finish acabar float flotar 196 float (cement) aplanar flow fluir force forzar forge forjar fracture fracturar frame work armazón glaze acristalar glue pegar gouge escoplear (con gubia) grade graduar hammer martillar hang colgar harden endurecer heat calentar hold sostener hook enganchar humidify humedecer hydrate hidratar inhibit inhibir inject inyectar install instalar insulate aislar join unir lower bajar measure medir mix mezclar mix mortar amasar nail clavar oil aceitar open abrir paint pintar pair casar plug in enchufar plumb plomar pull jalar pull out arrancar pump bombear push empujar raise subir sand lijar saw serruchar screw atornillar settle asentar shield escudar shine brillar sink hundir slice rebanar smooth-out aparejar spill derramar staple engrapar stop parar stretch estirar support apoyar surface alisar tie amarrar transect cortar en transversal turn off apagar turn on prender unplug desenchufar varnish barnizar 197 vault abovedar wallpapering empapelar wear desgastar weld soldar 198 EMERGENCY – EMERGENCIA can you describe the pain? ¿puede describir el dolor? can you feel this? ¿puede sentir esto? could you be pregnant? ¿podría estar embarazada? do you feel dizzy? ¿se siente mareado? do you feel itchy? ¿se siente con comezón? do you have a headache? ¿tiene dolor de cabeza? do you have a skin rash? ¿tiene alguna erupción? do you have allergies? ¿tiene alergias? do you have any feeling of tingling or numbness? ¿tiene alguna sensación de hormigueo o entumecimiento? do you have high blood pressure? ¿tiene la presión alta? do you have nausea? ¿tiene náuseas? do you have pain? ¿tiene dolor? do you have pain in the joints? ¿le duelen las articulaciones? do you have pain in the neck or back? ¿tiene dolor en el cuello o la espalda? do you have pain in your chest? ¿tiene dolor en el pecho? do you have sores or blisters? ¿tiene llagas o ampollas? do you have trouble breathing? ¿tiene dificultad para respirar? do you have trouble walking? ¿tiene dificultad para caminar? do you know if you are pregnant? ¿sabe si esta embarazada? do you understand what I am saying? ¿entiende lo que le digo? have you had a tetanus shot? ¿se ha inyectado contra el tétano? have you had heart problems? ¿ha tenido algún problema del corazón? how do you feel right now? ¿como se siento ahora? what day of the week is it? ¿que día de la semana es hoy? what is your name? ¿como se llama? when did the accident happen? ¿cuando ocurrió el accidente? where did the accident happen? ¿donde ocurrió el accidente? where does it hurt? ¿donde le duele? 199 ERGONOMICS – ERGONOMÍA ANATOMY ANATOMÍA disc disco (m.) joint; articulation articulación (f.) ligament ligamento (m.) median nerve nervio (m.) medio muscles músculos (m.) nerve nervio (m.) nerve root raíz del nervio (f.) spinal cord médula (f.) espinal (f.) tendons tendones (m.) transverse ligament ligamento (m.) transversal vertebra vertebra (f.) ILLNESSES ENFERMEDADES carpal tunnel syndrome síndrome del túnel carpiano (m.) ear / hearing illness enfermedad (f.) de la oreja (f.) / oído (m.) hernia hernia (f.) musculoskeletal musculoesquelética pain dolor (m.) swelling entumecimiento (m.) INJURIES LESIONES amputation amputación (f.) bruise magulladura (f.) contusion contusión (f.) cut cortada (f.) dislocation dislocación (f.) fracture fractura (f.) intercranial injury lesión (f.) intercranial laceration laceración (f.) multiple lesions lesiones (f.) múltiples strain tirón (m.) tear desgarramiento (m.) twist torcedura (f.) VERBS VERBOS bend doblar carry cargar hold sujetar lean apoyar / inclinar lift levantar / elevar lower bajar pull jalar push empujar reach alcanzar squeeze apretar twist torcer / girar 200 OR-OSHA LANGUAGE – IDIOMA DE OR-OSHA GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES abate corregir accident investigation investigación de accidente administrate administrar administrative law ley (f.) administrativa administrator administrador (a) affected employee trabajador (a) afectado (a) agent of the employer representante del patrón appeal apelar approve aprobar area inspection inspección de zona assure confirmar / verificar authorize autorizar break the law, rule quebrantar la ley, la norma bulletin board tablón de anuncios catastrophe catástrofe (f.) cause causa checklist lista de comprobación citation citación (f.) civil rights derechos (m.) civiles combined violation infracción (f.) combinada complaint queja (f.) / denuncia complaint inspection inspección (f.) de una queja (f.) compliance / enforcement vigilancia (f.) compliance officer oficial de vigilancia comply cumplir consult asesorar consultant asesor consultative section sección (f.) de asesoría coordinate coordinar correction order orden de corrección danger peligro (m.) dangerous peligroso demonstrate demostrar department departamento (m.) Department of Consumer & Business Services (DCBS) Departamento de Servicios para Consumidores y Negocios (DCBS) deposition deposición (f.) develop desarrollar director director (a) disciplinary disciplinario discipline disciplina (f.) disease enfermedad (f.) display exhibir / mostrar division división (f.) egregious flagrante emphasis inspection inspección (f.) de énfasis employee trabajador (a) / empleado (a) employee exposure record registro (m.) de exposición del empleado employee medical record expediente (m.) médico del empleado employee representative representante de los trabajadores / representante del empleado employer patrón / empresario employer representative representate del patrón /empresa enforce imponer enforcement activity acción (f.) de vigilancia enforcement section sección (f.) de vigilancia environmental exposure sampling muestreo (m.) de exposición medioambiental establish establecer establishment establecimiento evidence prueba (f.) / evidencia (f.) farm granja (f.) OR-OSHA LANGUAGE – IDIOMA DE OR-OSHA GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES abate corregir accident investigation investigación de accidente administrate administrar administrative law ley (f.) administrativa administrator administrador (a) affected employee trabajador (a) afectado (a) agent of the employer representante del patrón appeal apelar approve aprobar area inspection inspección de zona assure confirmar / verificar authorize autorizar break the law, rule quebrantar la ley, la norma bulletin board tablón de anuncios catastrophe catástrofe (f.) cause causa checklist lista de comprobación citation citación (f.) civil rights derechos (m.) civiles combined violation infracción (f.) combinada complaint queja (f.) / denuncia complaint inspection inspección (f.) de una queja (f.) compliance / enforcement vigilancia (f.) compliance officer oficial de vigilancia comply cumplir consult asesorar consultant asesor consultative section sección (f.) de asesoría coordinate coordinar correction order orden de corrección danger peligro (m.) dangerous peligroso demonstrate demostrar department departamento (m.) Department of Consumer & Business Services (DCBS) Departamento de Servicios para Consumidores y Negocios (DCBS) deposition deposición (f.) develop desarrollar director director (a) disciplinary disciplinario discipline disciplina (f.) disease enfermedad (f.) display exhibir / mostrar division división (f.) egregious flagrante emphasis inspection inspección (f.) de énfasis employee trabajador (a) / empleado (a) employee exposure record registro (m.) de exposición del empleado employee medical record expediente (m.) médico del empleado employee representative representante de los trabajadores / representante del empleado employer patrón / empresario employer representative representate del patrón /empresa enforce imponer enforcement activity acción (f.) de vigilancia enforcement section sección (f.) de vigilancia environmental exposure sampling muestreo (m.) de exposición medioambiental establish establecer establishment establecimiento evidence prueba (f.) / evidencia (f.) farm granja (f.) 201 farm operation operación (f.) agrícola farm worker trabajador agrícola filed presentado first aid primeros auxilios first instance violation infracción (f.) de primera instancia fixed place of employment planta (f.) de trabajo fija follow-up inspection inspección (f.) de verificación grouped violation infracción (f.) agrupada hazard riesgo (m.) / peligro (m.) hazardous peligroso health salud (f.) Health Compliance Officer Oficial de Vigilancia en Salud health hazard riesgo contra la salud / peligro a la salud healthy saludable hearing audiencia housing vivienda hygiene higiene (f.) imminent danger peligro (m.) inminente implement poner en práctica improve mejorar (m.) industrial hygiene higiene industrial industrial hygienist higienista industrial injury lesión (f.) inspect inspeccionar inspection inspección (f.) inspector inspector (a) interim order orden provisional (f.) interview entrevistar judgment condena (f.) labor camp campamento de trabajadores law ley (f.) lawyer abogado letter of corrective action carta (f.) de acción correctiva lost workday cases incident rate índice (m.) de incidencia de días laborales perdidos lost workdays días (m.) laborables perdidos mandatory obligatorio medical treatment tratamiento (m.) médico noncompliance incumplimiento (m.) occupational safety and health seguridad (f.) y salud (f.) en el trabajo Occupational Safety and Health Division División (f.) de Seguridad (f.) y Salud (f.) en el Trabajo offense ofensa (f.) on oath bajo juramento Oregon Safe Employment Act Ley (f.) de Seguridad (f.) en el Trabajo de Oregon other than serious violation infracción (f.) no seria owner dueño (a) penalize multar penalty multa (f.) periodic inspection inspección (f.) periódica permanent permanente person persona (f.) personal exposure samples muestreo (m.) de exposición personal place of employment planta (f.) de trabajo prevent prevenir priority prioridad (f.) private property propiedad (f.) privada probability probabilidad (f.) program programa (m.) programmed programado project proyecto (m.) provide proporcionar / dar question preguntar random inspection inspección (f.) al azar reasonable razonable 202 record registro (m.) recordable occupational injuries and illnesses lesiones (f.) y enfermedades (f.) ocupacionales registrables reduce reducir refer acuso (m.) / imputo (m.) refer to dirígase referral acusar / imputar referral inspection inspección (f.) de acuso / imputación regulation reglamentación / normatividad require requerir research investigar respond responder responsibility responsabilidad (f.) review revisar / examinar / analizar routine inspection inspección (f.) rutinaria rule norma (f.) / regla (f.) safe seguro (m.) safety seguridad (f.) safety and health seguridad (f.) y salud (f.) Safety Compliance Officer Oficial de Vigilancia en Seguridad safety hazards peligros (m.) a la seguridad (f.) scheduling list lista (f.) sistematizada seasonal farm workers trabajadores agrícolas de temporada section sección (f.) select seleccionar Senior Health Compliance Officer Oficial Mayor de Vigilancia en Salud Senior Safety Compliance Officer Oficial Mayor de Vigilancia en Seguridad Senior Safety Compliance Officer / Accident Investigation Specialist Oficial Mayor de Vigilancia / Especialista en Investigación de Accidentes serious physical harm daño (m.) físico serio serious violation infracción (f.) seria services servicios (m.) severity seriedad (f.) standard industrial classification clasificación (f.) industrial estándar standards normas (f.) statute ley (f.) / estatuto (m.) substantial failure to comply falta (f.) de cumplimiento sustancial supervisor supervisor (a) suspended penalty multa (f.) suspendida technical assistance section sección (f.) de asistencia (f.) técnica temporary temporal threat amenaza (f.) trainer entrenador (a) unabated violation infracción (f.) no corregida unprogrammed inspection inspección (f.) no programada variance variante (f.) verify verificar violation infracción (f.) warrant orden (f.) / mandamiento (m.) willful violation infracción (f.) intencionada witness testigo (m.) worker trabajador (a) working conditions condiciones (f.) laborales workplace planta (f.) de trabajo 203 RULES NORMAS chapter capítulo division división Division 1 General Administrative Rules División 1 Normas Administrativas Generales Division 2 General Occupational Safety and Health Rules División 2 Normas Generales de Seguridad y Salud Ocupacional Division 3 Construction División 3 Construcción Division 4 Agriculture División 4 Agricultura Division 5 Maritime Activities División 5 Actividades Marítimas Division 6 Forest Activities División 6 Actividades Forestales paragraph párrafo rule norma section sección subsection subsección 204 RESTAURANT – RESTAURANTE FOOD COMIDA almond almendra (f.) appetizer (drink) aperitivo (m.) appetizer (food) entrada (f.) apple manzana (f.) avocado aguacate (m.) bacon tocino (m.) banana plátano (m.) / banana (f.) basil albahaca (f.) bean (black) frijol negro (m.) bean (pinto) frijol pinto (m.) beef res (f.) beer cerveza (f.) berry mora (f.) bread pan (m.) broccoli bróculi (m.) butter mantequilla (f.) cabbage col (f.) cake pastel (m.) cantaloupe melón (m.) carrot zanahoria (f.) cauliflower coliflor (f.) celery apio (m.) cheese queso (m.) chicken pollo (f.) chile pepper chile (m.) chocolate chocolate (m.) chorizo chorizo (m.) cinnamon canela (f.) coconut coco (m.) coffee café (m.) coriander cilantro (m.) cream crema (f.) cucumber pepino (m.) dessert postre (m.) dill eneldo (m.) egg huevo (m.) eggplant berenjena (f.) entree platillo fuerte (m.) fish pescado (m.) flour harina (f.) french fry papa a la francesa (f.) garlic ajo (m.) grapefruit toronja (f.) green pea chícharo (m.) guava guayaba (f.) hamburger hamburguesa (f.) honey miel (f.) hotdog salchicha (f.) juice jugo (m.) lamb carnero (m.) lard manteca (f.) lemon lima (f.) lettuce lechuga (f.) lima bean haba (f.) lime limón (m.) liquor licor (m.) mandarin mandarina (f.) mango mango (m.) mint menta (f.) mushroom hongo (m.) / champiñón (m.) 205 noodle pasta (f.) nut nuez (f.) oil aceite (m.) olive oil aceite de oliva (m.) onion cebolla (f.) orange naranja (f.) oregano orégano (m.) paprika paprika (f.) parsley perejil (m.) pastry pastel (m.) peach durazno (m.) pear pera (f.) pepper pimienta (f.) plum ciruela (f.) pork puerco (m.) potato papa (f.) radish rábano (m.) relish encurtido de pepino (m.) rosemary romero (m.) salad ensalada (f.) salt sal (f.) sausage salchicha (f.) soft-drink refresco (m.) soup sopa (f.) spaghetti espagueti (m.) sprout brote (m.) / retoño (m.) squash calabaza (f.) stew guisado (m.) / estofado (m.) strawberry fresa (f.) sugar azúcar (m.) tea te (m.) thyme tomillo (m.) toast pan tostado (m.) tomatillo tomatillo (m.) / tomate verde (m.) tomato jitomate (m.) tortilla (corn) tortilla de maíz (f.) tortilla (flour) tortilla de harina (f.) turkey pavo (m.) vanilla vainilla (f.) vegetable oil aceite de vegetal (m.) watermelon sandia (f.) wine vino (m.) yam camote (m.) yogurt yogur (m.) zest cáscara (f.) 206 GENERAL ITEMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES 3-prong plug enchufe / clavija de 3 patas (f.) additives aditivos (m.) appliance aparato (m.) apron mandil (m.) blade hoja (f.) / cuchilla (f.) bleach blanqueador (m.) blender licuadora (f.) box caja (f.) broom escoba (f.) burner quemador (m.) can opener abrelatas (m.) cardboard cartón (m.) carpet alfombra (f.) chair silla (f.) chemical storage area área de almacenamiento de químicos (m.) chlorine cloro (m.) cleaners limpiadores (m.) cleaning equipment equipo de limpieza (m.) cleansers producto para la limpieza (m.) container recipiente (m.) cooker cocedor (m.) coolant refrigerante (m.) / enfriador (m.) corrugate cartón ondulado (m.) counter buffet (m.) / mostrador (m.) cover tapa (f.) cupboard despensa (f.) cupboard door puerta de la despensa (f.) cushion cojín (m.) cutter cortador (m.) cutting blade hoja cortante (f.) cutting board tabla (f.) / bloque para cortar (m.) cutting edge filo cortante (m.) cutting tip punta cortante (f.) debris desecho (m.) deep fryer sartén profundo (m.) degreaser desengrasador (m.) detergent detergente (m.) dish rag trapo para platos dishes platos (m.) dishwasher lavaplatos (m.) dishwasher soap jabón del lavaplatos (m.) door puerta (f.) dust polvo (m.) edge (border) borde (m.) edge (knife) filo (m.) electrical cord alambre (m.) / cable (m.) eléctrico equipment equipo (m.) exit salida (f.) faucet llave (f.) feed hopper tolva de carga (f.) fire extinguisher extintor de incendios (m.) flame llama (f.) floor suelo (m.) / piso (m.) flour harina (f.) flower flor (f.) food processor procesador de alimentos (m.) food pusher empujador de comida (m.) foot stool banco de pie (m.) fork tenedor (m.) fruit fruta (f.) fume emanación (m.) furniture muebles (m.) garbage basura (f.) GFCI interruptor de circuito sin conexión a tierra (m.) glasses vasos (m.) gloves guantes (m.) grain grano (m.) 207 grease receptacle receptáculo de grasa (m.) grinder molino (m.) ground tierra (f.) grounded equipment equipo conectado a tierra (m.) holes agujeros (m.) hood campana (f.) hose manguera (f.) hot oil aceite caliente (m.) jewelry joyería (f.) knife cuchillo (m.) ladders escaleras de mano (f.) ladle cucharón (m.) lid tapa (f.) light luz (f.) lighting alumbrado / iluminación (f.) lighting fixtures artefactos de alumbrado (m.) liquids líquidos (m.) long sleeve manga larga (f.) mat (cushioned) tapete acolchonado (m.) mat (floor) tapete (m.) metal metal (m.) metal spoons cucharas de metal (f.) microwave microonda (f.) mixer mesclador (m.) mop trapeador (m.) napkin servilleta (f.) obstruction obstrucción (f.) oil aceite (m.) outlet salida de corriente (f.) oven horno (m.) oven cleaner limpiador del horno (m.) peeler pelador (m.) personal protective equipment equipo de protección personal (m.) plants plantas (f.) plastic plástico (m.) plates platos (m.) plug enchufe (m.) pot olla (f.) pot handles asas de la olla (f.) powders polvos (m.) power cords cables de corriente (m.) preparation area área de la preparación (m.) press prensa (f.) pressure cooker olla a presión (f.) pure puré (m.) rag trapo (m.) rags trapos (m.) rails barandales (m.) refuse desecho (m.) rug alfombra (f.) scour pad estropajo (m.) seal sello (m.) shelf entrepaño (m.) sieve coladera (f.) sink lavabo (m.) / fregadero (m.) sink cleaner limpiador de fregadero (m.) skillet sartén (f.) slicer rebanador (m.) slotted spoon cuchara calada smoke humo (m.) spatula espátula (f.) spices especias (f.) splash salpicadura (f.) spoon cuchara (f.) 208 sprinklers rociadores (m.) stainless steel cleaner limpiador de acero inoxidable (m.) stairs escalones (m.) steam vapor (m.) switch apagador (m.) / interruptor (m.) switch panel caja del interruptor (f.) table mesa (f.) tablecloth mantel (m.) test prueba (f.) toaster tostador (m.) toaster oven horno tostador (m.) tongs tenazas toxic tóxico (m.) toxin toxina (f.) utensil utensilio (m.) vacuum cleaner aspiradora (f.) vapor vapor (m.) vegetable verdura (f.) waiter mesero (m.) waitress mesera (f.) wash basin lavabo (m.) water agua (m.) wax cera (f.) waxed floor suelo encerado (m.) wet floor suelo mojado (m.) window ventana (f.) wood madera (f.) VERBS VERBOS add (math) sumar add (quantity) agregar adorn adornar arrange arreglar / acomodar bake hornear blend licuar boil hervir break romper broil cocer a la parrilla burn quemar call llamar choke asfixiar chop trozar clean limpiar close cerrar cook cocinar / guisar cool enfriar cover cubrir crush machacar cut cortar decorate decorar dice cortar en cuadritos divide dividir drain escurrir drink tomar dry secar dust sacudir eat comer extinguish extinguir fix componer flip voltear freeze congelar fry freír go down bajar 209 go up subir grate gratinar grind triturar heat calentar hollow ahuecar insert insertar lick lamber lift levantar melt derritir mince picar mix mesclar mop trapear multiply multiplicar open abrir order ordenar overfill sobrellenar peel pelar perforate perforar polish pulir pour verter pull jalar push empujar put on poner remove quitar rest descansar return regresar roll enrollar rub sobar run correr sanitize desinfectar saturate empapar scald escaldar season sazonar seed quitar las semillas serve servir shake agitar shred desmenuzar sip sorber sit sentar slice rebanar slip resbalar smell oler soak remojar spill derramar split partir / rajar spray rociar spread untar squeeze (juice) exprimir squeeze (tighten) apretar steam cocer al vapor steep (tea) infundir stew guisar / cocer a fuego lento stick clavar stir revolver store almacenar subtract restar sweep barrer take off quitar taste saborear throw aventar trim recortar turn off apagar turn on prender vacuum aspirar 210 wait esperar walk caminar warm calentar wash lavar waste desperdiciar watch mirar water regar / mojar wax encerar weigh pesar welcome dar la bienvenida whiten blanquear widen ensanchar wipe limpiar work trabajar wrap envolver / cubrir write escribir zigzag poner en zigzag 211 STANDARDS – NORMAS BLOODBORNE PATHOGENS PATÓGENOS SANGUÍNEOS acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) síndrome (m.) de inmuno-deficiencia adquirida (SIDA) AIDS SIDA (m.) amniotic fluid líquido (m.) amniótico analyze tasks analizar deberes antibodies anticuerpos (m.) anticipate anticipar apron mandil (m.) aspirate aspirar (m.) baseline medida (f.) base bending needles doblando agujas (f.) biohazard riesgo biológico blood bank technologists tecnólogos en los bancos de sangre blood / blood products sangre (f.) / productos de sangre (f.) blood test análisis (m.) de sangre body fluids líquidos (m.) corporales brush cepillo (m.) care institutions institución de cuidado de salud cell cultures culturas (f.) de células cerebro-spinal fluid líquido (m.) cerebro-espinal contaminated equipment equipo (m.) contaminado contaminated laundry ropa (f.) contaminada control methods métodos (m.) de control correctional officers oficiales de recintos de detención counseling aconsejo (m.) damaged skin piel (f.) dañada decontaminate descontaminar dental employees empleados dentales dentists dentistas dust pan recogedor (m.) evaluation evaluación (f.) exposure exposición (m.) exposure control plan plan (m.) de control de la exposición eye protection protección de los ojos (m.) face mask máscara (f.) facial face shield visor (m.) firemen bomberos fluorescent orange anaranjado fluorescente for contaminates sharp instruments perforación (f.) para instrumentos afilados contaminados forceps pinzas (f.) gloves guantes (m.) hazard communication comunicación (f.) de riesgos hepatitis B hepatitis B (m.) hepatitis B vaccine vacuna (f.) contra hepatitis B housekeeping personnel in health trabajadores de quehaceres domésticos en human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) virus (m.) de la inmuno-deficiencia humana (VIH) hypoallergenic gloves guantes (m.) hipoalérgicos hypodermic needle aguja (f.) hipodérmica identify workers identificar trabajadores inject inyectar (m.) intact skin piel (f.) intacta labeling etiquetado labels etiquetas (f.) medical examiners examinadores médicos morticians empleados de funerarias 212 mouth pipeting (prohibit) pipetado bucal (prohibir) mucous membranes membranas (f.) mucosas needle cap tapa (f.) / capucha (f.) de la aguja needlesticks picaduras (f.) con agujas non-intact skin piel (f.) dañada nurses enfermeras obtain consent obtener consentimiento (m.) one-handed technique técnica de una mano (f.) orange-red rojo anaranjado organ órgano (m.) organ cultures culturas (f.) de órganos other potentially infectious material otros materiales (m.) potencialmente infecciosos paramedics paramédicos pericardial fluid líquido (m.) pericardial peritoneal fluid líquido (m.) peritoneal personal protective equipment (PPE) equipo (m.) protectivo personal (EPP) phlebotomists flebotomianos physicians médicos pleural fluid líquido (m.) pleural police policía de rescate public service personnel personal de seguridad pública puncture resistant resistente a las perforaciones (f.) puncture resistant disposal containers envases (m.) de desecho resistentes a la reasonable possibility posibilidad (f.) razonable recapping needles retapar agujas (f.) red bags bolsas (f.) rojas regulated waste desecho (m.) regulado regulated waste container envase (m.) de desecho regulado removing needles quitando agujas (f.) research laboratory workers trabajadores de los laboratorios de investigación reusable contaminated sharps container envase (m.) de objetos afilados contaminados robes batas (f.) saliva in dental procedures saliva (f.) en los procedimientos dentales self sheathing needles agujas (f.) auto-revestidas semen semen (m.) specimens especímenes (m.) splash salpicar synovial fluid líquido (m.) sinovial syringe jeringa (f.) tissue tejido (m.) tongs tenazas (f.) train entrenar (m.) / adiestrar (m.) training entrenamiento / adiestramiento universal precautions precauciones (f.) universales vaccine series serie (f.) de vacunas vaginal secretions secreciones (f.) vaginales work practice controls controles (m.) de prácticas de trabajo work surfaces superficies de trabajo LOCKOUT TAGOUT CIERRE Y ETIQUETADO accumulated energy energía cinética / acumulada adjust ajustar adjustment ajuste affected employee empleado afectado amount of energy cantidad de energía annually anualmente authorized employee empleado autorizado automatic automático battery batería (f.) block bloqueo (m.) / enclavamiento (m.) blocking device mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) de bloqueo capable of being blocked capaz de ser bloqueado 213 capable of being locked capaz de ser cerrado capacitor capacitor (m.) chain cadena (f.) check / verify verificar chemical energy energía (f.) química circuit circuito (m.) cleaning limpieza (f.) closed circuit circuito (m.) cerrado combination lock candado (m.) de combinación compliance cumplimiento (m.) confirm confirmar control of hazardous energy control (m.) de fuentes de energía peligrosa danger peligro (m.) danger – do not operate peligro – no operar danger zone zona (f.) de peligro de-energize cortar la energía discharge descarga do not close no cerrar do not energize no energizar do not open no abrir do not operate no operar do not start no prender do not use no usar durable tag rótulo (m.) / etiqueta (f.) perdurable dynamic energy energía (f.) dinámica electrical energy energía (f.) eléctrica electrically powered equipment equipo (m.) de poder eléctrico energization dar energía energized energizado energy control program programa (m.) de control de energía energy isolation device mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) de corte de energía energy source fuente (f.) de energía equipment equipo (m.) exclusive control of plug control único del enchufe (m.) flywheel rueda (f.) volante gravity energy energía (f.) de la gravedad greasing engrase guard protector (m.) hasp cerrojo (m.) / aldabilla (f.) high pressure alta presión (f.) hydraulic energy energía (f.) hidráulica identify lock owner identificar el dueño del candado (m.) inoperable inoperable inspection inspección isolate aislar isolate the energy source cortar el suministro de energía (f.) jammed / clogged atascado / encasquillado key llave (f.) lever palanca (f.) lockout cierre lockout and tagout cierre y rotulación lockout device mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) de cierre machine máquina (f.) main box / main panel interruptor (m.) de mando / principal manually manualmente mechanical energy energía (f.) mecánica moving parts partes (f.) móviles multiple energy sources fuentes (f.) de energía múltiples multiple lock device / adaptor adaptador (m.) de cierres múltiples multiple shifts varios turnos (m.) neutral neutral / colocar en cero neutralize neutralizar never ignore tags nunca ignore un rótulo (m.) / etiqueta (f.) 214 normal operations operaciones normales not visible no visible notify notificar notify workers avise a los empleados off / shut down apagado (m.) on prendido one key per lock una llave (f.) por candado one lock per person un candado (m.) por persona open circuit circuito (m.) abierto operator operario other employee otro empleado padlock candado (m.) plug enchufe (m.) plug in enchufar pneumatic energy energía (f.) neumática pressure energy energía (f.) de presión procedure for shut down procedimiento (m.) de cierre radiation energy energía (f.) de radiación remove a lock quitar un candado (m.) remove a tag quitar un rótulo (m.) / etiqueta (f.) repair reparar residual dangerous energy residuo de energía (f.) peligrosa review energy control program examinar el programa (m.) de control de energía (f.) safety device aditamento (m.) de seguridad service or maintenance work trabajo (m.) de servicio o mantenimiento setting up for machine operation preparativos (m.) para la operación de la máquina shift turno (m.) single energy source fuente (f.) de energía única slack / loose sin tensión spring energy energía (f.) de resorte start arrancar start-up arrancar / poner en marcha static energy energía (f.) estática stored energy energía (f.) almacenada sturdy locks candados (m.) fuertes sudden repentino supervision supervisión switch interruptor (m.) / apagador (m.) switch box / panel box caja (f.) de interruptores / interruptor tag rótulo (m.) / etiqueta (f.) tag-out colocación de rótulo (m.) / etiqueta (f.) training adiestramiento type of energy tipo de energía (f.) unexpected inesperado valve válvula (f.) valve handle manecilla (f.) de la válvula (f.) vapor energy energía (f.) a vapor (m.) verify isolation of energy comprobar el corte de energía (f.) visible visible 215 MACHINE GUARDING AND MECHANICAL TERMS PROTECTORES DE MAQUINARIA Y TÉRMINOS MECÁNICOS accelerator acelerador (m.) activate activar activation activación adjust ajustar adjustable guard protector (m.) ajustable / regulable air filter filtro (m.) de aire alternator alternador (m.) angle iron ángulo (m.) de hierro armature armadura (f.) automatically automáticamente axle eje (m.) bearing balero (m.) belting / belt system sistema (m.) de bandas belts bandas (f.) bend doblar bending action acción (f.) de doblar bolted atornillada brake freno (m.) caliber calibre camshaft árbol (m.) / eje (m.) de levas carburetor carburador (m.) ceiling mounted montado al techo (m.) chain cadena (f.) chain drive cadena (f.) de transmisión chain link eslabón (m.) de cadena (f.) clean out waste material desalojar (m.) material de desperdicio close cerrar closed cerrado clutch cloch (m.) / embrague clutch brake freno (m.) del cloch / embrague clutch pedal pedal (m.) del cloch / embrague clutch shaft árbol (m.) del cloch / embrague connecting rod biela (f.) construct construir cooling system sistema (m.) de enfriamiento corrective maintenance mantenimiento (m.) correctivo countershaft contraflecha (f.) cover cubierta (f.) covered cubierto (m.) crankcase cárter (m.) del motor (m.) crankshaft árbol (m.) / flecha (f.) de cigüeñal crossed steel strips tiras (f.) de metal cruzadas crossed wood strips tiras (f.) de madera cruzadas crush aplastar cutting action acción (f.) de cortar cutting edge filo (m.) cortante cycle ciclo (m.) cylinder cilindro (m.) design diseño (m.) device dispositivo (m.) differential case cárter (m.) del diferencial dismantle desmantelar distributor distribuidor (m.) driveshaft flecha (f.) de impulso dynamic dinámico effective guard protector (m.) efectivo emergency stop device dispositivo (m.) para paro de urgencia emission emisión enclose encerrar energy energía (f.) engineer ingeniero (a) equipment equipo (m.) explosion explosión exposed expuesto extruded metal metal (m.) extruido / formado feed alimentar feeding alimentación feeding material alimentando materia prima (f.) 216 filter filtro (m.) fixed guard protector (m.) fijo floor mounted montado (m.) al piso flying particles partículas (f.) volantes flying parts partes (f.) volantes flywheel rueda (f.) volante frame marco (m.) fuel injection inyección (f.) de gasolina (f.) fuel pump bomba (f.) de gasolina (f.) galvanized galvanizado (m.) gasket junta (f.) gearbox caja (f.) / cárter (m.) de engranes gears engranes (m.) / engranajes (m.) grip agarrar guard protector (m.) guarded by barriers protegido por obstáculos (m.) guarded by distance protegido por su distancia (f.) guarded by location protegido por su sitio (m.) guarding protegiendo hazard peligro (m.) hazardous area área (m.) peligrosa heavy duty bastante resistente hooks ganchos (m.) housing cárter (m.) idle sin mando idlershaft eje (m.) sin mando ignition coil bobina (f.) de arranque inspect inspeccionar install instalar integrally designed guard protector (m.) integralmente diseñado interfere with machine operation interferir con la operación de la máquina interfere with production interferir con la producción iron bar varilla (f.) light curtain cortina (f.) luminosa long link chain eslabones (m.) largos machine máquina (f.) maintenance mantenimiento maintenance schedule periodicidad del mantenimiento make hacer manually manualmente material material (m.) mechanical hazards riesgos (m.) mecánicos metal tube tubo (m.) de metal (m.) minimum specifications especificaciones mínimas modify modificar motor motor (m.) motor, electric motor (m.), eléctrico motor, fuel motor (m.), combustible mount montar mounting montaje moving guard protector (m.) móvil moving part parte (f.) en movimiento neutral neutral nip point punto (m.) de mordedura oil filter filtro (m.) de aceite out of adjustment mal ajustado panels paneles (m.) pedal pedal (m.) perforated metal metal (m.) perforado photoelectric device dispositivo (m.) sensitivo fotoeléctrico pinch point punto (m.) de pellizco pinion, gear wheel piñón (m.) piston pistón (m.) point of operation punto (m.) / lugar de operación potential risk riesgo (m.) potencial presence sensing device dispositivo (m.) sensitivo de presencia 217 press prensa (f.) press, to presionar pressing action acción (f.) de prensar pressure vessels recipientes (m.) a presión prevent accidental actuation prevenir funcionamiento accidental preventative maintenance mantenimiento (m.) preventivo procedure procedimiento (m.) protection protección pull jalar pull into machine jalar dentro de la máquina pullback device dispositivo (m.) “sacamanos” punching action acción (f.) de punzar readjust reajustar reciprocating motion movimiento (m.) recíproco / de vaivén recognize reconocer remove retiro remove the guard quitar el protector (m.) removing retirando removing finished product retirando producto (m.) terminado removing material retirando materia prima (f.) replace the guard volver a colocar el protector (m.) rigid rígido rigid mounting montaje (m.) rígido ring anillo (m.) risk riesgo (m.) riveted remachado rocker arm balancín (m.) rotating motion movimiento (m.) giratorio rotating projections proyecciones (f.) de partes (f.) giratorias scissor tijera (f.) screen pantalla (f.) screened apantallado self-adjusting guard protector (m.) auto ajustable / regulable semi-fixed guard protector (m.) semifijo shaft eje (m.) shaft ends puntas (f.) de ejes (m.) shearing action acción (f.) de cizalla sheave polea (f.) sheet metal lámina (f.) de metal (m.) shift lever palanca (f.) de cambios shop taller (m.) short link chain eslabones (m.) cortos single piece una sola pieza (f.) soldered soldada spark plug bujía (f.) spin girar spin fast girar rápidamente spin slow girar despacio sprocket wheel rueda (f.) dentada para cadena (f.) / catarina (f.) static estático steel roll rollo (m.) de metal (m.) supports soportes (m.) tool herramienta (f.) transmission transmisión (f.) transmission belt banda (f.) / correa (f.) de transmisión (f.) transmission box caja (f.) de la transmisión transmission brake freno (m.) en la transmisión (f.) transmission gears engranes (m.) / engranajes (m.) de transmisión (f.) transparent plastic plástico (m.) transparente transverse motion movimiento (m.) transversal trap atrapar two-handed control mando (m.) bimanual uncrossed steel strips tiras (f.) de metal (m.) no cruzadas uncrossed wood strips tiras (f.) de madera (f.) no cruzadas unguarded no protegido valve válvula (f.) vibration vibración visual inspection inspección visual 218 wall mounted montado a la pared (f.) water pump bomba (f.) de agua (m.) wheel chain cadena (f.) de transmisión wire mesh rejilla (f.) de alambre (m.) wood madera (f.) PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT EQUIPO PROTECTIVO PERSONAL BODY CUERPO apron mandil (m.) / delantal (m.) life jackets chalecos (m.) salvavidas (m.) rain gear impermeable (m.) shirt camisa (f.) shirt (long sleeved) camisa (f.) de manga (f.) larga signal vests chalecos (m.) de señalización (f.) suspenders tirantes (m.) vests chalecos (m.) EARS OÍDOS cap-mounted ear muffs orejeras (f.) para montaje en casco (m.) corded plugs or cones tapones (m.) o casquetes (m.) con cuerda (f.) ear cones casquetes (m.) cónicos ear muffs orejeras (f.) / almohadilla (f.) de oídos (m.) ear plugs tapones (m.) de oído (m.) ear plugs band banda (f.) de tapones (m.) de oído (m.) ear pods casquetes (m.) flanged ear cones casquetes (m.) de oído (f.) de pestañas (f.) folding ear muffs orejeras (f.) plegables impact noise electronic ear muffs orejeras (f.) electrónicas contra ruidos (m.) de impacto (m.) low frequency ear muffs orejeras (f.) para bajas frecuencias (f.) stereo ear muffs orejeras (f.) estereofónica wave dielectric ear muffs orejeras (f.) de onda (f.) dieléctricas wireless communication ear muffs orejeras (f.) con transceptor (m.) EYES OJOS chemical splash goggles gafas (f.) o gogles (m.) antisalpicadura química eye protection for radiant energy protección (f.) de ojos (m.) para la energía (f.) radiante full cup side shields protectores (m.) laterales de copa (f.) completa goggles gafas (f.) o gogles (m.) impact resistant resistentes contra impacto (m.) laser goggles gafas (f.) para luz (f.) láser (m.) safety glasses lentes (m.) de seguridad (f.) side shields protectores (m.) laterales soldering lenses gafas (f.) para soldar FACE/HEAD CARA/CABEZA adjustable band banda (m.) ajustable aluminum aluminio (m.) bump cap gorra (f.) de protección connectors conectores (m.) face shield visor (m.) fiberglass fibra (f.) de vidrio (m.) hair nets gorras (f.) protectoras hard hat casco (m.) / sombrero (m.) rígido non-conducting no conductor (m.) polycarbonate policarbonato (m.) polyethylene polietileno (m.) shell coraza (f.) ski mask gorra (f.) alpinista straps correas (f.) suspension system sistema (m.) de suspensión (f.) welding mask mascara (f.) antirresplandor de energía (f.) radiante FALL PROTECTION PROTECCIÓN ANTICAIDAS 5000 pounds 5000 libras abdominal abdominal adjust ajustar anchor anclaje (m.) anchor points puntos (m.) de anclaje (m.) o enganche (m.) angle ángulo (m.) arrest detención (f.) back espalda (f.) barrier barrera (f.) 219 body harness (legal for use) arnés (m.) del cuerpo (m.) (su uso es legal) broken roto buckle hebilla (f.) cable cable (m.) capacity capacidad (f.) climb subir commercial construction construcción (f.) comercial competent person persona (f.) capaz connect conectar control line cuerda (f.) de control controlled access zone (CAZ) zona (f.) de acceso (f.) controlado (CAZ) dangerous equipment equipo (m.) peligroso deceleration devices mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) de deceleración (f.) dee-ring anillo (m.) en forma de D diameter diámetro (m.) dorsal dorsal (m.) fall caída (f.) fall arrest detención (f.) de caída (f.) fall distance distancia (f.) de caída (f.) fall protection net red (f.) de seguridad / malla (f.) fall restraint contención (f.) de caídas (f.) flag bandera (f.) flagged abanderar flat surface superficie (f.) plana floor hole covers cubiertas (f.) de los hoyos (m.) de piso (m.) floor holes hoyos (m.) del piso (m.) four feet (4) cuatro pies (m.) (4) free fall caída (f.) libre free fall distance distancia (f.) de caída (f.) libre front delante (m.) gradual slowing detención (f.) gradual guardrail system (GS) sistema (m.) de guardarriel (m.) / barandal (m.) (GS) guardrails guardarrieles (m.) / barandales (m.) hang colgar harness arnés (m.) height altura (f.) highly visible material material (m.) altamente visible hoist izar impact impacto (m.) install instalar join unir knot nudo (m.) lanyard mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) anticaidas de cuerdas (f.) o cintas (f.) tejidas leading edge work trabajo en el borde leaning inclinando leather cuero (m.) length largo (m.) lifeline (horizontal) linea (f.) de vida (f.) (horizontal) lifeline (vertical) linea (f.) de vida (f.) (vertical) low sloped roof techo (m.) de pendiente (f.) menor manila manila minimum strength aguante (m.) mínimo monitor vigilante (m.) / monitor (m.) nylon nilón (m.) open edges bordes (m.) abiertos / orillas (f.) open hook (illegal for use) gancho (m.) abierto (su uso es ilegal) open sides lados (m.) abiertos padded acolchonado personal fall arrest system (PFAS) sistema (m.) personal de detención (f.) de caídas (PFAS) pockmarked apolillado 220 qualified person persona (f.) calificada rain lluvia (f.) ramp rampa (f.) rebar (uncapped) varilla (f.) (sin tapas) residential construction construcción (f.) residencial restrict access limitar acceso retractable lanyard (yo-yo) mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) anticaidas retráctil (yo-yo) ring anillo (m.) roof techo (m.) roof brackets ménsulas (f.) de techo (m.) roofing instalando techo rope cuerda (f.) ropegrab apretadera (f.) de cuerda (f.) rusted oxidado safety belt (illegal for use) cinturón (m.) de seguridad (f.) (su uso es ilegal) safety harness arnés (m.) de seguridad (f.) safety monitor vigilante (m.) de seguridad (f.) safety net system (SNS) sistema (m.) de seguridad (f.) de malla (f.) (SNS) secure anchor anclaje (m.) seguro setting trusses instalando armaduras (f.) de la cubierta setting walls instalando paredes (f.) sheathing revestimiento (m.) exterior (m.) shock absorber amortiguador (m.) de choque (m.) / absorbedor shock absorbing lanyards mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) de cuerdas (f.) o cintas (f.) amortiguadoras short corto six feet (6) seis pies (m.) (6) slide deslizar slideguards mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) contra deslizamiento (m.) sloped roof techo (m.) de vertiente snap hook gancho (m.) de cierre (m.) instantáneo (mosquetón (m.)) speed velocidad (f.) split rajado (m.) stanchions puntales (m.) steel erection erección (f.) de hierro (m.) steep sloped roof techo (m.) de pendiente (f.) mayor tape cinta (f.) ten feet (10) diez pies (m.) (10) thimble ojal (m.) de terminal (m.) de cable (m.) tight apretado tighten apretar tongue lengüeta (f.) too long demasiado largo (m.) torn desgarrado unprotected side lado (m.) sin protección wall pared (f.) wall opening apertura (f.) en la pared warn employees advertir a los empleados weight peso (m.) wind viento (m.) wire alambre (m.) worn desgastado (m.) FEET/LEGS PIES/PIERNAS boots botas (f.) chaps zahones (m.) chemical resistant footwear calzado (m.) a prueba de químicos (m.) electric hazard footwear calzado (m.) contra riesgo (m.) eléctrico electrical conducting footwear calzado (m.) conductor eléctrico knee guards rodilleras (f.) leather cuero (m.) leggings polainas (f.) metatarsal protectors protectores (m.) del empeine (m.) overboots or rubbers forros (m.) para botas (f.) o zapatos (m.) pants pantalones (m.) puncture resistant resistente a perforaciones (f.) rubber hule (m.) / goma (f.) shin guard protector (m.) de espinillas (f.) slip resistant footwear calzado (m.) antirresbaladizo slip resistant sole suela (f.) antirresbaladizo socks calcetines (m.) 221 steel toed puntas (f.) de acero (m.) wet surface footwear calzado (m.) a prueba de líquidos (m.) GENERAL TERMS TÉRMINOS GENERALES abrasion roce absorb absorber absorption absorción accessories accesorios (m.) acetate acetato (m.) acetylene cutting corte con acetileno (m.) adequate adecuada adjust ajustar adjustable ajustable administrative controls controles (m.) administrativos alteration alteración American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Instituto Nacional Americano de Estándares (ANSI) antifogging antiempañante (m.) approved aprobado atmospheric pressure presión (f.) atmosférica attenuation atenuación barriers barreras (f.) blue light luz (f.) azul bumps abolladuras (f.) clasp retén (m.) clean room cuarto (m.) limpio cleaning tissues paños (m.) para limpiar coated revestido (m.) / recubierto (m.) comfort cómodo comfortable fit calce cómodo contact lenses lentes (m.) de contacto contour contorno (m.) contrast contraste (m.) decibels decibeles (m.) device mecanismo (m.) / dispositivo (m.) disposable desechable durable coating recubrimiento (m.) durable efficacy eficacia eight hour shift turno (m.) de ocho horas electric arc arco (m.) eléctrico engineering controls controles (m.) de ingeniería (f.) ergonomic ergonómico excessive noise exceso de ruido (m.) filter filtro (m.) fit acoplar flexion flexión fluorescent fluorescente flying particles partículas (f.) en vuelo flying sparks chispas (f.) en vuelo fogging empañado frame armazón (f.) frostbite congelación (f.) parcial hard duro heat exhaustion agotamiento (m.) por el calor heat resistant resistente al calor (m.) heat stress insolación (f.) high contrast alto contraste (m.) hood capuchón (m.) hygienic higiénico hypothermia hipotermia (f.) infrared light luz (f.) infrarroja inspection inspección (f.) lens cleaning tissues paño (m.) limpia cristales (m.) light (weight) livianos lining forro (m.) loose suelto luminosity luminosidad (f.) 222 maintenance mantenimiento (m.) maximum máximo (m.) minimum mínimo (m.) mirrored finish acabado (m.) espejado nasal support asiento nasal (m.) National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) Instituto Nacional de Seguridad y Salud Ocupacional (NIOSH) noise ruido (m.) noise reduction rating (NRR) índice (m.) de reducción de ruido (m.) (NRR) opaque shield pantalla (f.) opaca open furnace horno con hogar abierto oxyacetylene cutting corte (m.) con oxiacetileno (m.) pain dolor (m.) plasma plasma (f.) plastic plástico (m.) polycarbonate policarbonato (m.) prescription eyewear anteojos (m.) recetados pressure presión (f.) protection protección (f.) protection factor factor (m.) de protección (f.) radiation radiación (f.) reduce reducir reduction reducción reflection reflejo (m.) reflectors reflectores (m.) repair reparación reusable reutilizable rubber hule (m.) scratch rayar sides lados (m.) size tamaño (m.) slag escama (m.) soft suave solder soldar sound sonido (m.) source fuente (f.) splash salpicar static electricity electricidad (f.) estática suspension system sistema (m.) de suspensión tempered templado test prueba (f.) thickness espesor (f.) tight fitting ajuste bueno / acoplamiento apretado transmit transmitir transparent transparente ultraviolet light luz (f.) ultravioleta uncomfortable incomodo universal universal universal protection methods métodos de protección (f.) universales ventilation ventilación welding hood casco (m.) de soldador work shift jornada (f.) de trabajo HANDS/ARMS MANOS/BRAZOS abrasion roce acrylic acrílico (m.) Barrier™ Barrier™ barrier cream crema (f.) barrera (f.) butyl butilo (m.) butyl / neoprene butilo (m.) / neopreno (m.) canvas manta (f.) chemical resistant gloves guantes (m.) resistentes a químicos (m.) cloth tela (f.) 223 coating revestido (m.) / recubierto (m.) cold resistant gloves guantes (m.) contra temperaturas (f.) frías cotton algodón (m.) cotton lining forrado (m.) de algodón (m.) cuff puño (m.) de la manga (f.) degrade degradar disposable desechable elbow codo (m.) extreme temperature resistant guantes (m.) resistentes a temperaturas (f.) extremas finger dedo (m.) finger cots dedal (m.) fist puño (m.) flexible flexible flocked aterciopelado forearm antebrazo (m.) gloves guantes (m.) heat resistant gloves guantes (m.) contra temperaturas (f.) calientes heavy-duty glove guante (m.) de uso pesado impermeable impermeable (m.) Kevlar® Kevlar® (m.) knit gloves guantes (m.) tejidos (m.) leather cuero (m.) lined forrado (m.) linemen high tension gloves guantes (m.) de alta tensión (f.) para linieros linemen sleeves mangas (f.) para linieros lining forro (m.) long cuff puño (m.) largo low tension gloves guantes (m.) de baja tensión (f.) medium mediano mesh malla (f.) metal reinforced gloves guantes (f.) reforzados con metal (m.) natural latex látex (m.) natural natural rubber hule (m.) natural / goma (f.) natural neoprene neopreno (m.) nitrile nitrilo (m.) nylon nilón (m.) palm palma (m.) polyester poliéster (m.) polyethylene polietileno (m.) powder-free sin talco (m.) powdered con talco (m.) protective cream crema (m.) protectora protective pomade pomada (m.) protectora puncture resistant resistencia (f.) a picaduras (f.) PVA™ (polyvinyl alcohol) alcohol polivinílico (PVA™) (m.) PVC (polyvinyl chloride) cloruro de polivinilo (PVC) (m.) resistant resistencia (f.) reversible reversible rubber hule (m.) / goma (f.) rubber lining revestido (m.) de hule (m.) safety tape cinta (f.) de seguridad (f.) Silver Shield® Silver Shield® (m.) size tamaño (m.) sleeves mangas (f.) solderer´s gloves guantes (m.) de soldador stainless steel mesh malla (m.) de acero (m.) inoxidable standard glove guante (m.) estándar tactile táctil textured finish acabado (m.) áspero thick grueso (m.) thin delgado 224 thumb pulgar (m.) unlined sin forro (m.) vinyl vinilo (m.) Viton® Vitón® (m.) wide cuff puño (m.) ancho wool lana (f.) wrist muñeca (f.) RESPIRATORS RESPIRADORES absorbent absorbente (m.) aerodynamic diameter diámetro (m.) aerodinámico air line tubo (m.) de respiración air line disconnector acoplamiento (m.) desmontable air-line respirator respirador (m.) de linea (f.) de aire (m.) air purifying canister bote (m.) purificador de aire (m.) air-purifying cartridge cartucho (m.) purificador de aire (m.) air-purifying respirator respirador (m.) purificador de aire (m.) air-purifying respirators for particle contaminants respiradores (m.) purificadores para contaminantes (m.) en partículas (m.) air-purifying respirators for vapors/gases respiradores (m.) purificadores de aire para vapores (m.) y/o gases (m.) air-regulation valve válvula (f.) reguladora de aire (m.) air-supplied respirator respirador (m.) de suministro de aire (m.) atmosphere-supplying respirator respirador (m.) suministrador de atmósfera (f.) cartridge cartucho (m.) cartridge respirator respirador (m.) de cartucho (m.) catalyzer catalizador (m.) chemical filter filtro (m.) químico 225 classification clasificación (f.) cleaning and disinfecting limpieza (f.) y desinfección (f.) confined space espacio (m.) confinado contaminant contaminante (m.) dangerous atmosphere atmósfera (f.) peligrosa demand demanda (f.) demand and pressure demand demanda (f.) y presión demanda (f.) disinfect desinfectar disposable respirator respirador (m.) libre de mantenimiento / respirador (m.) desechable dusts polvos (m.) emergency respirator respirador (m.) de emergencia exhalation valve válvula (f.) de exhalación eye piece pieza (f.) ocular face piece pieza (f.) facial fibrosis-causing dust polvo (m.) productor de fibrosis (f.) filter filtro (m.) filtering facepiece (dust mask) respirador (m.) de mascarilla (f.) (mascarilla contra polvo) fog neblina (f.) forced air purifying respirator respirador (m.) purificador de aire (m.) de tipo forzado full-face respirator respirador (m.) de cara (f.) completa fumes emanaciones (f.) gases gases (m.) half-face respirator respirador (m.) de media cara high efficiency filter filtro (m.) de alta eficiencia hood capucha (f.) immediately dangerous to life or health (IDLH) inmediatamente peligroso para la vida o la salud inhalation valve válvula (f.) de inhalación materials materiales (m.) mechanical filter filtro (m.) mecánico medical surveillance vigilancia (f.) médica mists rocíos (m.) mouth piece pieza (f.) bucal negative pressure respirator respirador (m.) de presión (f.) positiva non-routine respirator respirador (m.) de uso no rutinario nose piece pieza (f.) nasal oxygen deficient atmosphere atmósfera (f.) deficiente de oxígeno (m.) pneumoconiosis-causing dust polvo (m.) productor de neumoconiosis (f.) positive pressure respirator respirador (m.) de presión (f.) negativa prefilter prefiltro (m.) protection factor factor (m.) de protección rescue respirator respirador (m.) de rescate (m.) resistence resistencia (f.) respirable respirable respirable dust polvo (m.) respirable respirator respirador (m.) respirator (air hose supplied) máscara (f.) con manguera (f.) con soplador (m.) respirator (cartridge) respirador (m.) de cartucho (m.) químico (m.) respirator medical evaluation questionnaire cuestionario (m.) de evaluación (f.) médica para respirador (m.) respiratory protection program programa (f.) de protección (f.) de respiración retention valve válvula (f.) de retención reusable respirator respirador (m.) con mantenimiento self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) respiradores (m.) autocontenidos o autónomos service life vida (f.) de servicio smoke humo (m.) specifications especificaciones (f.) supplied-air respirators (SAR) respiradores (m.) de suministro de aire (f.) temperature resistance resistencia (f.) a la temperatura use simulation simulación (f.) de uso user seal check verificación del sello (m.) por el usuario valve válvula (f.) 226 vapors vapores (m.) visual inspection inspección (f.) visual window service-life indicator indicador (m.) de ventana (f.) 227 TOOLS & MORE – HERRAMIENTA Y DEMÁS abrasive paper papel (m.) abrasivo abrasive tools herramientas (f.) para abrasión adding machine sumadora (f.) adjustable key llave (f.) graduable adjustable pliers pinzas de boca graduable (f.) adjustable triangle triángulo (m.) ajustable adjustable wrench / monkey wrench llave (f.) inglesa adjusting lever cuña (f.) de ajuste adjusting-nut tuerca (f.) tensora adjusting screw tornillo (m.) de ajuste adze azuela (f.) adze block cabeza (f.) de azuela (f.) adze eye ojo (m.) de azuela (f.) aggregate gun pistola (f.) de agregados aiguille aguja (f.) air brush pulverizador (m.) de aire (m.) comprimido air gun lanzadera (f.) de (m.) aire air hammer martillo (m.) neumático (m.) airplane avión (m.) aligning punch punzón (m.) de alinear aluminum nails clavos (m.) de aluminio (m.) ampere-hour meter contador (m.) de amperio-hora anchor blocks bloques (m.) de anclaje anchor bolt tornillo (m.) (perno (m.)) de anclaje anchor plates placas (f.) de anclaje anchor ties tirantes (m.) angle float paleta (f.) (llana (f.)) de ángulo angle gauge galga (f.) de ángulos angle paddle paleta (f.) de acabado de esquinas angle plane cepilladora (f.) angular angle plow paleta (f.) para esquinas angle tie, angle brace escuadra (f.) de esquina annular bit broca (f.) anular annular nails clavos (m.) anulares antichecking iron hierro (m.) de contraste anvil yunque (m.) arc welder soldadora (f.) de arco Arnott valve válvula (f.) de Arnott auger barrena (f.) auger bit boca (f.) de barrena (f.) automatic time switch interruptor (m.) automático auxiliary switch interruptor (m.) auxiliar awl punzón (m.) de madera ax hacha (m.) axe hacha (m.) axhammer martillo (m.) de cantería backhoe retroexcavadora (f.) backsaw serrucho (m.) de costilla backwater flap válvula (f.) de charneta para reflujo backwater valve válvula (f.) de contracorriente badger brocha (f.) badger plane guillame (m.) de esquinar baling machine empacadora (f.) / enfardadora (f.) / embaladora (f.) baling machine round empacadora (f.) / enfardadora (f.) circular ball faucet válvula (f.) de flotador para llave ball peen hammer martillo (m.) de bola bandsaw sierra (f.) sinfín banjo tapers encintadora (f.) banjo bar clamp barra (f.) de mordaza (f.) bar handle empuñadura (f.) de barra barbed dowel pin clavija (f.) dentada barrel bolt cerrojo (m.) pasador batter rule eclímetro (m.) de suspensión bead chain cadena (f.) de rosario (m.) bead plane cepillo (m.) de astrágalo beading machine ribetadora (f.) beading tool marcador (m.) de astrágalos beam compass compás (m.) de vara bearing (load) apoyo (m.) / asiento (m.) 228 bearing (machine) cojinete (m.) / chumacera (m.) bellows fuelle (m.) belt banda (f.) belt conveyor banda transportadora (f.) / cinta (f.) transportadora bench banco (m.) bench plane cepillo (m.) de banco (f.) bench saw sierra (f.) circular de mesa (f.) bevel square escuadra (m.) biselada bevel washer rondana (m.) (arandela (m.)) achaflanda bib llave (m.) (grifo (f.)) de boca roscada bicycle bicicleta (f.) bin tolva (f.) / depósito (m.) bit trépano (m.) bit brace berbiquí (m.) bit gauge tope (m.) de barrenas blast heater radiador (m.) de aire caliente blender licuadora (f.) block garrucha (f.) block and tackle aparejo (m.) de poleas (m.) block plane cepillo (m.) de contrafibra blowtorch soplete (m.) bolt tornillo (m.) (perno (m.)) bolt and nut tornillo (m.) y tuerca (f.) boom aguilón (m.) bottom bolt cerrojo (m.) de pie bow compass bigotera (f.) bow dividers compás (m.) de puntas bow saw sierra (f.) de arco box nails clavos (m.) para madera brace berbiquí (m.) brace bit barrena (f.) de berbiquí (m.) brace measure escuadra (f.) de jabalcones brad punta (f.) bradawl punzón para clavos brazier brasero (m.) breast drill berbiquí (m.) de pecho (m.) brick hammer martillo (m.) de enladrillar brick set cuchilla (f.) de corte para ladrillos brick trowel paleta (f.) (llana (f.)) / trulla (f.) broom escoba (f.) browning brush cepillo (m.) salpicador brush cepillo (m.) bucket cubeta (f.) bull-nose plane cepillo (m.) con cuchilla (f.) al frente bulldozer tractor (m.) de oruga (f.) / bulldozer (m.) bullet catch resbalón (m.) de bola bus autobús (m.) / camión (m.) butt gauge gramil (m.) para bisagras button-headed bolt tornillo (m.) de cabeza redonda cabinet burnisher pulidora (f.) de ebanista cabinet file lima (f.) de ebanista cabinet latch tirador (m.) cabinet lock cerrojo (m.) de armario cabinet scraper rasqueta (f.) de ebanista calculator calculadora (f.) caliper calibrador (m.) caliper gauge calibrador de mordazas (m.) calipers pie de rey (m.) can opener abre latas (m.) cant hook gancho (m.) maderero car coche (m.) carpenter´s level nivel (m.) de carpintero cartridge fuse fusible (m.) de cartucho casement window fastener cerrojo (m.) de ventana de dos hojas casing nail clavo (m.) para contramarcos caster roldana (f.) catalyst additive gun pistola (f.) para aditivo catalizador catch bolt picaporte (m.) caterpillar tractor (m.) de oruga (f.) caulking gun pistola (f.) para calafateo caulking tool retacador (m.) cavil martillo (m.) de punta ceiling light lámpara (f.) de techo 229 cement gun cañon (m.) lanza cemento (m.) cement stucco das brush cepillo (m.) de estuco (m.) de cemento (m.) center punch punzón (m.) de marcar chain cadena (f.) chain bolt cerrojo (m.) de cadena chain door fastener cerrojo (m.) de cadena para puerta chain tongs llave (f.) de cadena chainsaw motosierra (f.) chalk line cordel (m.) entizado chamfer bit broca (f.) biseladora chamfer plane guillame (m.) de inglete check valve válvula (f.) de retención cheek of hammer cabeza (f.) de martillo (m.) chest pull empuñadura (f.) (muebles) chip ax doladera (f.) chisel cincel (m.) chuck mandril (m.) chute canal (m.) / canalón (m.) de descarga circuit breaker interruptor (m.) circular saw sierra (f.) circular city valve llave (f.) municipal clamp mordaza (f.) / abrazadera (f.) clamping screw tornillo (m.) de sujeción classifier clasificador (m.) claw hammer martillo (m.) de orejas claw hatchet hachuela (f.) de oreja clay mill molino (m.) de arcilla clip presilla (f.) cold chisel cortafrío (m.) / cincel frio (m.) collar collar (m.) comb peine (m.) combination lock cerradura (f.) de combinación combination pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) graduables combination square herramienta (f.) combinada combination till and cultivator cultivadora (f.) y rastra (f.) combinada combine cosechadora (f.) / trilladora (f.) common nail clavo (m.) común compass brújula (f.), compás (m.) compass plane cepillo (m.) redondo compass saw serrucho (m.) de marquetería compass, scroll saw sierra de contornear (f.) compressor compresora (f.) concrete insert tornillo (m.) (perno (m.)) para cemento concrete mixer mezcladora (f.) / hormigonera (f.) de concreto (m.) concrete nails clavos (m.) para concreto (m.) / hormigón (m.) condensation pump bomba (m.) de condensación (f.) conduit bender curvadora (f.) de tubos cone crusher trituradora (f.) de conos (m.) conveyor transportador (m.) conveyor belt banda (f.) transportadora cooling tower torre (f.) de refrigeración copier copiadora (f.) coping saw sierra (f.) caladora corner chisel formón (m.) de ángulo corner trowel paleta (f.) (llana (f.)) de esquina corrugate box knife cuchilla (f.) para cartón-fibra cotton harvester cosechadora (f.) de algodón (m.) countersink avellanador (m.) crane grúa (f.) crank cigüeñal (m.) crank brace berbiquí (m.) de manubrio (m.) crapping plane cepillo (m.) de canal (m.) crawler dozer tractor (m.) de orugas (f.) cremorne bolt cremona (f.) crop cultivator cultivadora (f.) para cultivo en hilera (f.) crosscut saw sierra (f.) de tumba crowbar palanca (f.) de pie de cabra crusher triturador (m.) cupboard button cerradura (f.) de manecilla (f.) curb edger bordeadora (f.) curb valve llave (f.) de cierre general cut nail clavo estampado cutting gauge gramil de cuchilla cutting pliers pinzas (alicates) de corte 230 cylinder lock cerradura (f.) de husillo (m.) cylinder ring arandela (f.) para cerradura (f.) de husillo (m.) dead bolt cerrojo (m.) muerto defoliating machine deshojadora (f.) dehumidifier deshumidificador (m.) derrick grúa (f.) de brazo retráctil derrick die dado (m.) dies combadora (f.) disc coulter reja (f.) circular disc sander lijadora (f.) de disco distribution panel panel (m.) de distribución ditch digger zanjadora (f.) dog nail clavo (m.) de cabeza excéntrica door bell timbre (m.) door bolt cerrojo (m.) de puerta door nails clavos (m.) para puerta door stop tope (m.) de puerta door switch interruptor (m.) de puerta double headed nails clavos (m.) de cabeza doble dovetail cramps grapas (f.) en cola de milano dovetail saw serrucho (m.) para cola de milano dowel pin clavija (f.) draftsman´s scale escalímetro (m.) drag cucarda (f.) dragline excavator excavadora de arrastre (f.) drain faucet llave (f.) (grifo) de purga drawer pull tirador (m.) de cajón drawing dibujo (m.) drawing board tablero (m.) de dibujo drawknife desbastadora (f.) dredge draga (f.) dresser maza (f.) de fontanero drill taladro (m.) drill bit broca (f.) drill, coulter reja (f.) de sembradora (f.) drill, fertilizer abonadora (f.) mecánica drill point punta (f.) de broca drill saw sierra (f.) taladro drill, seeder sembradora (f.) de surcos (m.) drive screw / screw nail clavo-tornillo (m.) drop cord interruptor (m.) de cadena drop hammer pilón (m.) dryer secadora (f.) drywall hammer martillo (m.) para placas de yeso drywall joint tool paletín (m.) de juntas drywall mud masher amasadora (f.) para juntas (f.) dump truck volqueadora (f.) duplex lock cerrojo (m.) doble dusting brush cepillo (m.) de delineante Dutch door bolt cerrojos (m.) de puerta tipo holandés economizer economizador (m.) edger recortadora (f.) elastic knife cuchillo (m.) elástico elbow catch pestillo (m.) electric drill taladro eléctrico (m.) electric glue gun pistola (f.) eléctrica de pegar electric hand sander pulidora (f.) eléctrica manual electric handsaw sierra (f.) portátil eléctrica electric meter medidor de electricidad (m.) electric portable tools herramientas (f.) de mano con motor eléctrico electric sander lijadora (f.) eléctrica electric screwdriver destornillador (m.) eléctrico electrician´s hammer martillo (m.) de electricista elevator elevador (m.) emery esmeril (m.) emery cloth tela (f.) de esmeril enclosed fuse fusible (m.) encerrado engine motor (m.) entrance switch interruptor (m.) de servicio eraser goma (f.) de borrar escutcheon pin clavo (m.) de escudo Essex board measure tabla (f.) Essex 231 excavator excavadora (f.) expansion bit barrena (f.) ajustable extension ruler regla (f.) extensible face hammer cotillo (m.) face of hammer cara (f.) de martillo (m.) facing hammer martillo (m.) de encarrujar fan abanico (m.) fastener cerrojo (m.) fastening tools herramientas (f.) para unión faucet llave (f.) / espita (f.) / grifo feeder alimentador (m.) female plug enchufe (m.) hembra fertilizer spreader distribuidor (m.) de fertilizantes (m.) file lima (f.) finishing tools herramientas (f.) de repasar fireproofing machine máquina (f.) para ignifugación firmer gouge formón de mediacaña (m.) firmer tools formones (m.) flap valve válvula (f.) de mariposa flat-head wire brad clavo (m.) de cabeza de diamante flat-nose pliers pinzas (m.) (alicates (f.)) de doblar flexible curves reglas (m.) flexibles float talocha (f.) float valve válvula (f.) de flotador flood light lámpara (f.) de alta intensidad floor chisel escoplo (m.) arrancador floor sander lijadora (f.) de piso flower pot maceta (f.) flush bolt cerrojo (m.) embutido flush switch interruptor (m.) empotrado flush valve válvula (f.) de aspersión flute reamer escariador (m.) de ranuras rectas folding ladder escalera (f.) plegable folding ruler regla (f.) plegable foldstir mixer mezcladora-amasadora (f.) foot bolt falleba (f.) de pie forklift montacargas (m.) forming machine perfiladora (f.) forming tool herramienta (f.) para perfilar forstner bit broca (f.) forstner framing sawhorse caballete de aserrado (m.) framing square gage cursores (m.) de escuadra de carpintero french window lock falleba (f.) de puerta cristalera fret saw segueta (f.) / sierra de calar (f.) friction catch resbalón (m.) front weights contrapesos (m.) fuse fusible (m.) fuse link fusible (m.) (elemento (m.)) fusible link eslabón (m.) fusible garden hose manguera (f.) gas metal-arc welder (MIG) soldadora (f.) con arco metálico gas pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) de gasista gas welding equipment equipo (m.) de soldadura (llama de gas) gasket empaque (m.) gasoline portable tools herramientas (f.) de mano con motor de gasolina gate valve válvula (f.) de compuerta gauge, marking gauge gramil (m.) generator generador (m.) gimlet barrena (f.) pequeña gin poles mástil-grúa (m.) glass cutter cortavidrio (m.) glazier´s chisel escoplo (m.) de vidriero glazier´s points puntas (f.) de cristalero glazing grads clavos (m.) de cristalero glitter gun pistola (f.) para colorear glove valve válvula (f.) esférica gloves guantes (m.) gouge gubia (f.) grader máquina (f.) niveladora grafting knife navaja para injerto (f.) grain drill sebradora (f.) neumática graining comb peine (m.) de vetas grass catcher receptor de pasto (m.) 232 grease gun bomba de engrase (f.) grinder (crusher) trituradora (f.) grinder (machine) esmeril (m.) / esmeriladora (f.) grinder (sharpener) afilador (m.) grizzly / grate parrilla (f.) grozing iron lima (m.) de plomero grub saw sierra (f.) de marmolería guard protector (m.) gutter bolt abrazadera (f.) de canalón gypsum board nails clavos (m.) para paneles de yeso hacksaw segueta (f.) (sierra para metales) half-back bench saw sierra (f.) de medio lomo half hatchet media hacha (f.) half-round file lima (f.) de media caña hammer martillo (m.) hand brace berbiquí (m.) portátil hand drill taladro (m.) de mano hand electric drill taladradora (f.) eléctrica portátil hand file lima (f.) plana hand groover acanaladora (f.) de mano hand lever punch punzonadora (f.) de mano hand pruners tijeras (f.) hand screw tornillo (m.) de banco hand tools herramientas (f.) de mano handle manecilla (f.) handsaw serrucho (m.) hardware (doors, windows, furniture, decor) herrajes (m.) harrow rastra (f.) harrow disc rastra (f.) de discos (m.) hasp cerrojo (m.) / aldabilla (f.) hatchet hacha (f.) de mano / destral (m.) hay chopper picadora (f.) de heno (m.) heat pump bomba (f.) de calor (f.) heater calentador (m.) hedge shears tijera para setos (f.) high alto (f.) high-limit control control (m.) de tolerancia máxima hitch command control (m.) de enganche (m.) hoe azadón (m.) hold-down clamp abrazadera (f.) de freno hollow punch punzón (m.) sacabocados hook gancho (m.) hopper tolva (f.) horizontal directional driller perforadora (f.) direccional horizontal horizontal lock cerradura (f.) horizontal hose bib llave (grifo) para manguera humidifier humidificador (m.) hydraulic control control (m.) hidráulico hydraulic jack gato (m.) hidráulico hydraulic tools herramientas (f.) hidráulicas hydraulic valve válvula (f.) hidráulica idler polea loca (f.) / polea de guía (f.) impact crusher trituradora (f.) de impacto (m.) inert-gas metal-arc welder soldadora (f.) de arco a gas inerte infernal machine máquina (f.) infernal inside angle tool paleta (m.) (llana) angular inside calipers compás (m.) para interiores insulating tape cinta (f.) aislante jack gato (m.) / gato de palanca jack plane garlopa (f.) jack truss cuchillo (m.) corto jackscrew gato (m.) de tornillo jaw crusher trituradora (f.) de mordaza (m.) jet airplane jet (m.) jiffler mixers amasadoras (f.) instantáneas jiffy mud and resin mixer amasadoras (f.) instantáneas de barro (m.) y resinas (f.) jig saw sierra (f.) alternativa vertical joint bolt tornillo (m.) (perno (m.)) de chaveta jointer marcador (m.) de juntas jointer plane juntera (f.) jumper puente (m.) 233 keyhole saw serrucho (m.) de calar kiln horno (m.) de materiales knife switch interruptor (m.) de palanca knob lock cerradura (f.) de perilla ladder escalera (f.) de mano ladder hook gancho (m.) de escala lag bolt tornillo (m.) de rosca de madera lag expansion shield tornillo (m.) de expansión land plane / steamroller niveladora (f.) / aplanadora (f.) latch cerrojo (m.) de barra lathe torno (m.) lawnmower podadora (f.) layout tee escuadra (f.) de cabios lead nails clavos (m.) para plomo leather gloves guantes (m.) de cuero level nivel (m.) leveling rod mira (f.) topográfica lever palanca (f.) lifesaver salvavidas (m.) light dimmer reductor (m.) de luz light fixture lámpara (f.) lime mixers mezcladora (f.) de cal line level nivel (m.) de línea link eslabón (m.) lock cerradura (f.) locknut contratuerca (f.) long (needle)-nose pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) de punta larga loppers tijeras de podar con mangas largas (f.) low bajo machine bolt tornillo (m.) (perno (m.)) roscado machine expansion shield tornillos (m.) de avance expansivos machine made hecho a maquina (f.) machine screws tornillos (m.) para metal machine shop taller (m.) mecánico machine tools herramienta (f.) machine winding enrollamiento mecánico machinist mecánico (a) magnet imán (m.) magneto magneto (m.) male plug enchufe (m.) macho mallet mazo (m.) marking awl punzón (m.) para marcar maderas marking gauge gramil (m.) masonry nail clavo (m.) para mampostería masonry saw sierra (f.) de mampostería master switch interruptor (m.) general maul maza (f.) de pilotes mechanized mecanizado meter contador (m.) milling cutter fresa (f.) milling machine fresadora (f.) mincer máquina (f.) de picar carne (f.) mini-excavator mini-excavadoras (f.) miter inglete (m.) molding plane cepillo bocel (m.) mortar board esparavel (m.) mortar mixer amasadora (f.) mortise chisel formón (m.) de mortaja mortise gauge gramil (m.) de mortaja mortise lock cerradura (f.) de mortaja motorcycle motocicleta (f.) mower segadora (f.) acondicionadora / rotativa mud holder esparavel (m.) para torta nail clavo (m.) nail gun grapadora (f.) neumática nail puller sacaclavos (m.) nail punch, brad punch botador (m.) nailer, nail gun martillo (m.) clavador nailing machine grapadora (f.) de pisos neck of hamm night bolt cerrojo (m.) de noche nippers tenazas (f.) nut tuerca (f.) oakum estopa (f.) alquitranada oil can aceitera (f.) outlet, plug enchufe (m.) de corriente oven horno (m.) oxyacetylene torch soplete (m.) oxiacetilénico (m.) oxyacetylene welder soldadora (f.) oxiacetilénica paint brush brocha (f.) paint dryer secador (m.) de pintura pattern-maker´s saw sierra (f.) de marquetería peavy palanca (f.) de gancho peen hammer martillo (m.) de peña peg espiga de ebanistería pen pluma (f.) pencil lápiz (m.) pencil sharpener sacapuntas (m.) penknife navaja (f.) Phillips head screw destornillador (m.) de cabeza Phillips Phillips screwdriver desarmador de cruz (m.) pick pico (m.) pick-up truck camioneta (f.) pike pole garrocha (f.) pile driver martinete (m.) pile hammer martinete (m.) pin almilla (m.) pin, peg, dowel clavija (f.) pincers tenacillas (f.) pincers, tongs tenazas (f.) pipe cutter cortatubos (m.) pipe trowel paleta (f.) (llana) de tubo pipe vise tornillo (m.) para tubos pipe vise stand banqueta (f.) de fontanero pipe wrench llave (f.) para tubos / estilson (m.) pitch triangle triángulo (m.) de pendientes pitchfork horquilla para paja / heno plane cepillo (m.) de carpintero planter sembradora (f.) plaster mortar mixer amasadora (f.) de mortero (m.) de yeso (m.) plasterboard nails clavos (m.) para cartón yeso plasterer´s knife cuchilla (f.) para mortero plasterer´s rubber sponge esponja (f.) de goma para enyesado plastering machine máquina (f.) de enyesado plastering spatula espátula (f.) de emplastecer platform plataforma (f.) platform (loading) cargadero (m.) / muelle de carga pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) plow arado (m.) plow, disc arado (m.) de discos (m.) plowshare reja (f.) del arado (m.) plowsole piso (m.) del arado (m.) plumb and level nivel (m.) de albañil plumb line plomada (f.) plumb rule nivel (m.) de perpendículo plunger desatascador (m.) pocket level nivel de bolsillo (m.) pointing trowel paletín (m.) potato digger arrancador (m.) de papas (f.) powder-driven fastener pistola (f.) de cartuchos para fijación power drill perforadora (f.) eléctrica (f.) power hammer martillo (m.) mecánico power panel panel (m.) de alimentación power saw sierra (f.) eléctrica power take off (PTO) toma (f.) de fuerza (f.) power trowel máquina (f.) extendedora de cemento powershift transmisión (f.) press prensa (f.) prick punch granete (f.) pruning knife cuchillo de poda (m.) pruning saw sierra de podar (f.) pulley polea (f.) 235 pump bomba (f.) punch punzón (m.) de metales quadrant cuadrante (m.) rab batidora (f.) rabbet plane guillame (m.) rabbeted lock cerradura (f.) embutida rack saw sierra (f.) de corte ancho radial bar compás (m.) de gran radio radial saw sierra (f.) de disco radiator radiador (m.) radius tool curvadora (m.) de barras de armadura raising hammer martillo (m.) de chapista rake rastrillo (m.) rasp escofina (f.) ratchet bit brace berbiquí (m.) de trinquete (m.) ratchet drill carraca (f.) de palanca (f.) ratchet hoist elevador (m.) por trinquete ratchet nail clavo (m.) de trinquete reamer escariador (m.) reaping machine segadora (f.) reducing valve válvula (f.) reductora retractable tape measure cinta (f.) retráctil return idler rodillo (m.) de retorno (m.) rice brush cepillo (m.) de paja (f.) de arroz (m.) right-hand tool herramienta (f.) a derechas rim latch cerrojo (m.) al aire ripper chísel (m.) ripping bar sacaclavos (m.) ripsaw sierra (f.) de corte al hilo rivet remache (m.) rivet set buterola (f.) riveter remachadora (f.) riveting hammer martillo (m.) de remachar rivets remaches (m.) rod vara (f.) de medir roll type hand benders curvadora (m.) de tubos para EMT roller rodillo (m.) rolling mill laminadora (f.) roofing nails clavos (m.) para tejado rope mecate (m.) / reata (f.) rotary cultivator cultivador (m.) rotativo rototiller cultivadora giratoria (f.) router tupi (m.) rubber gloves guantes (m.) de caucho (hule) ruler regla (f.) ruling pen tiralíneas (m.) rung (ladder) peldaño (m.) (escalera de mano) safety switch interruptor (m.) de seguridad safety hasp cerrojo (m.) de candado salamander salamandra (f.) sand screw tornillo (m.) de arena (m.) sandpaper papel (m.) de lija sash fast falleba (f.) de ventana sash lift elevador (m.) de ventana sash plane cepillo (m.) rebajador saw sierra (f.) saw gullet fondo (m.) del diente saw set, swage triscador (m.) sawbuck banqueta (f.) de aserrado sawhorse banco (m.) de carpintero scaffold andamio (m.) scarifier escarificador (m.) scraper raspador (m.) scratcher rasqueta (f.) screens tela (f.) metálica (f.) screw tornillo (m.) screw clamp mordaza (f.) de tornillo screw jack gato (m.) de husillo screw tap macho de aterrajar (m.) screwdriver desarmador (m.) / destornillador (m.) scriber punta de trazar (f.) 236 scroll saw sierra (f.) de calar scrubber depuradora (m.) scutch, scotch cortadora (m.) de ladrillos scythe guadaña (f.) seamer engatilladora (f.) secateurs tijeras de podar (f.) seed drill sembradora (f.) serration sierra (f.) dentada set square, triangle cartabón (m.) setting hammer martillo (m.) estampador settling pond charco (m.) de asentamiento (m.) sewing machine máquina (f.) de cocer shears cizallas (f.) sheet-metal screws tornillos (m.) de metal shim, key cuña (f.) shingling hatchet hachuela (m.) para tejamanil shoulder tool bag caja (f.) de herramienta (f.) colgante shovel, spade pala (f.) sickle hoz (m.) sill faucet llave (f.) (grifo (m.)) de manguera single pole switch interruptor (m.) monopolar sink bib llave (f.) (grifo (m.)) curva skinning knife cuchilla (f.) de electricista skip eskip (m.) / cestón (m.) sledgehammer marro (m.) slicker alisador (f.) sling eslinga (f.) small tools herramientas (f.) pequeñas snips tijeras (f.) para chapa fina socket encaje (m.) socket chisel escoplo (m.) de casquillo socket wrench matraca (f.) sockets dardos (m.) solder gun pistola (f.) para soldadura soldering iron cautín (m.) soldering kit cautín (m.) solid punch punzón (m.) compacto spading fork horquilla cavadora (f.) spatula espátula (f.) spike clavo (m.) de retranca split ring collar (m.) partido spokeshave cepillo (m.) para superficies (f.) cóncavas sprayer rociador (m.) spring latch cerrojo (m.) de vaivén square escuadra (f.) staple grapa (f.) stapler grapadora (f.) staples grapas (f.) stationary mixer mezcladora (f.) / hormigonera (f.) estacionaria steel measuring tape cinta (f.) de acero steel square escuadra (f.) de acero steel wool estropajo (m.) de acero Stillson wrench llave (f.) Stillson stilts zancos (m.) stippling brush cepillo (m.) para picado stockpile reserva (f.) de existencia (f.) stonecutter´s chisel escoplo (m.) de cantería straight ladder escalera (f.) recta strap abrazadera (f.) string cuerda / hilo (m.) strip fuse fusible (m.) de cinta subsoiler arado (m.) de subsuelo (m.) sump pump bomba (f.) para sumidero (m.) T bevel falsa escuadra (f.) en T T-square escuadra (f.) en T table saw sierra (f.) de mesa tack tachuela (f.) tackle aparejo de polipasto (m.) tail pulley polea (f.) de cola (f.) tang rabera (f.) tap macho (m.) de roscar tape measure cinta de medir (f.) tape (regular) cinta (f.) (regular) 237 test light lámpara (f.) testigo three-prong plug enchufe (m.) macho de tres patillas three-way switch interruptor (m.) de tres posiciones till rastra (f.) de discos (m.) en tandem tilting mixer mezcladora (f.) basculante timber carrier portatroncos (m.) tin snips tijeras (f.) de hojalatero tire lever desmontador de llantas (m.) toaster tostador (m.) tool belt cinturón (m.) de herramientas tool box caja (f.) de herramienta (f.) tool carrier cargadora (f.) de herramienta (f.) torque wrench llave (f.) dinamométrica track vía (f.) / linea (f.) / carril (f.) tractor tractor (m.) transit teodolito (m.) trencher zanjadora (f.) trowel (agriculture) desplantador (m.) trowel (construction) paleta (f.) truck camión (m.) / camión (m.) de carga (f.) truck mixer mezcladora (f.) / hormigonera (f.) sobre camión (m.) truss clips grapas (f.) para cerchas try square escuadra (f.) de comprobación tubular lock cerradura (f.) de pomos turnbuckle tensor de alambre (m.) turret lathe torno revólver (m.) twist drill broca (f.) salomónica unbalanced back-flow valve válvula (f.) de contracorriente inestable uniloader minicargadora (f.) vacuum pump bomba (f.) de vacío (m.) valve válvula (f.) veneer saw sierra (f.) para chapado vertical saw sierra (f.) vertical vibrator vibrador (m.) vice torno (m.) vise tornillo (m.) de carpintero vise grips mordazas (f.) de tornillo de carpintero wall pared (f.) washer rondana (f.) washing machine máquina (f.) de lavar water level nivel (m.) de agua water meter medidor de agua (m.) watering can regadera (f.) wheel loader cargadora (f.) frontal wheelbarrow, dolly carretilla (f.) winch torno (m.) de elevación windlass polipasto (m.) window latch cerrojo (m.) de ventana windrow pickup cabezal (m.) para grano (m.) / maíz (m.) wingnut tuerca de palomilla wire alambre (m.) wire brad clavo (m.) wire brush cepillo (m.) de alambre wire connectors conectores (m.) de cables eléctricos wire cutters cortaalambres (m.) wire cutting pliers pinzas (f.) (alicates (m.)) corta alambres wire gauge galga (f.) de alambre wiring cleats grapas (f.) para tendido de cable wood chisel formón (m.) wood ruler regla (f.) de madera workbench banco (m.) de trabajo wrench llave (f.) wrench (bolts) llave (f.) para tuercas 238 WORK ACTIONS AND GENERAL VERBS ACCIONES DEL TRABAJO Y VERBOS GENERALES abrade desgastar / esmerilar absorb absorber abut lindar abut against apoyar contra accelerate acelerar acclimatize aclimatar acidify acidificar act actuar activate activar adapt adaptar add (math) sumar add (quantity) agregar adhere adherir adjust ajustar admit admitir adorn adornar adsorb adsorber advance avanzar advertise anunciar / avisar advertise for bids llamar a concurso de cotización advice asesorar / recomendar advise aconsejar aerate ventilar / airear aerial spraying rocío (m.) aéreo / asperción (f.) aérea against the grain contrafibra / contrahilo age envejecer aggregate agregar / añadir agglomerate aglomerar agglutinate aglutinar agitate agitar agree acordar / convenir air condition acondicionar el aire air cool enfriado por aire air driven impulsado por aire air dry secar al aire air operate operar por aire air out airear alarm alarmar align alinear all-out hacer uso de toda la fuerza alter alterar / cambiar alternate alternar amalgamate amalgamar analyze analizar anchor anclar angle angular apply aplicar approve aprobar argue discutir arrange arreglar / acomodar arrest arrestar arrive llegar ascend subir ask pedir ask for pedir ask (question) preguntar assemble armar / ensamblar assess evaluar attach acoplar attack atacar back cross retrocruzar backfurrow contrasurco bake hornear balance balancear / equilibrar bale embalar / enfardar be (to be) ser; estar be able poder bear cargar bend doblar bite morder blend mezclar bloat hinchar / inflamar block bloquear blossom florear blow soplar board entablar boil bullir / hervir bolt atornillar / echar cerrojo brace apoyar brake frenar break romper breathe respirar breed criar brew elaborar bring traer broil cocer a la parrilla broker corredor bruise magullar / moretonear brush cepillar buckle abrochar bud brotar build construir burn quemar buy comprar calibrate calibrar call llamar can (able) poder can (canning) enlatar cap tapar capillary action acción capilar caress acariciar carry cargar cash cobrar / cambiar castrate castrar / capar catch coger caulk enyesar cement cementar / unir cement (cover with) revestir chain encadenar change cambiar channel acanalar chew masticar chisel cincelar choke asfixiar choose escoger chop trozar claim reclamar / exigir clamp sujetar con abrazadera clasp abrochar clean / wipe limpiar / frotar climb subir climb (ladder, stairs) subir climb (tree) trepar clip (attach) abrochar clip (cut) cortar clone clonar close cerrar colonize colonizar color colorear compact comprimir compare comparar compete competir complement complementar compost fermentar compress apelmazar concentrate concentrar condensate condensar condense condensar conduct conducir connect conectar construct construir 240 contact ponerse en contacto con contaminate contaminar continue continuar contract (disease) contraer (enfermedad) contract (to shrink) contraer / encoger contract (to sign a contract) contratar control controlar controlled flood inundación regulada cook cocinar / guisar cool enfriar coordinate coordinar copy copiar corrode oxidar count contar couple acoplar cover / cover up cubrir / tapar crack agrietar crash chocar crawl gatear cross cruzar crush aplastar / triturar / machacar cure curar curl encrespar cut cortar cut down abatir dam represar dampen mojar darken obscurecer decay pudrir decompose descomponer decorate decorar deep plow arar profundamente deepen profundizar defeat vencer defecate defecar defend defender deflocculate deflocular deform deformar degenerate degenerar dehorn descornar dehydrate deshidratar / secar demand exigir / demandar demonstrate demostrar denitrify desnitrificar deposit depositar desiccate desecar design diseñar detach desprender detail detallar detassel despanojar deteriorate deteriorar dice cortar en cuadritos die morir / fallecer dig cavar / escarbar dig-up arrancar digest digerir dip sumergir direct dirigir disagree desacuerdo disappoint decepcionar disapprove desaprobar disassemble desarmar disbud desbotonar / desyemar discard desechar discharge (contaminants) verter discharge (fire) despedir disintegrate desintegrar dismount desmontar dissolve disolver distill destilar distinguish distinguir distribute distribuir divide dividir 241 do hacer doff quitar (equipo protectivo) don poner (equipo protectivo) draft tirar drain (dishes) escurrir drain (sink, tub, vat) drenar / desaguar draw dibujar dredge dragar drill (hole) taladrar drill (well) perforar drink tomar / beber drip gotear drive manejar / conducir drizzle escurrir drizzle (rain) lloviznar drop dejar caer dry secar dry out resecar dry up resecarse / requemarse dust (to apply, sprinkle) polvorear dust (to clean, remove) sacudir / desempolvar dye teñir eat comer economize economizar edge bordear effervesce espumar eject expulsar electrify electrificar elevate elevar empty vaciar end acabar / terminar enrich enriquecer ensilage ensilar enter entrar eradicate extirpar erase borrar erect construir / erigir erode erosionar err errar escape escapar establish / set-up (business, process) establecer estimate calcular evaporate evaporar excavate excavar exhaust escapar exit salir expand expandir explode explotar export exportar extend extender extinguish extinguir extract extraer fall caer farrow parir feed alimentar feel sentir fell talar fence cercar ferment fermentar fertilize (egg) fecundar fertilize (w/ fertilizer) fertilizar file (archive) archivar file (rasp) limar fill llenar fill in rellenar filter filtrar finance financiar find out averiguar finish acabar fit sentar fix componer flatten aplanar 242 flip voltear flip over darle la vuelta float flotar float (cement) aplanar flood inundar flow fluir flower florecer fly volar fold doblar force forzar forge forjar forget olvidar fracture fracturar frame work armazón freeze congelar fry freír fumigate fumigar funnel embudar furnish / supply suministrar / proveer furrow surcar galvanize galvanizar garden trabajar el jardín gather reunir germinate germinar gin despepitar give dar glaze acristalar glaze (ceramic) vidriar glue pegar go ir go down bajar go out salir go to seed espigar go up subir gouge escoplear (con gubia) grade graduar graft injertar granulate granular grate gratinar grease engrasar grind moler / triturar grip agarrar grow (cultivate) / till cultivar / producir / sembrar grow (in age) crecer hail granizar hammer martillar handle manejar hang colgar harden endurecer harrow gradar harvest / pick cosechar / pizcar hatch empollar have tener head descabezar hear oír heat calentar help ayudar hibernate hibernar hire emplear hitch enganchar / acoplar hoe (dig) cavar hoe (weed) sachar hoist alzar hold agarrar / sostener / sujetar hollow ahuecar homogenize homogeneizar hook enganchar humidify humedecer hunt cazar hydrate hidratar illuminate iluminar 243 implant implantar import importar improve mejorar increase aumentar / incrementar industrialize industrializar infect infectar infest infestar inflame inflamar / hinchar inhibit inhibir inject inyectar insert insertar install instalar insulate aislar invest invertir irradiate irradiar irrigate irrigar / regar join unir judge juzgar jump saltar / brincar kick patear knife acuchillar knit tejer knot anudar know conocer / saber laugh reír layer laminar leach deslavar leak fugar / salir lean apoyar / inclinar learn aprender leave ir let go soltar level igualar / nivelar lick lamber lift / raise levantar / alzar listen escuchar live vivir lixiviate lixiviar loan prestar lock cerrar look / see / view ver / mirar loosen up mullir lop podar lose perder lower bajar lug arrastrar make hacer map cartografiar mark marcar massage sobar / dar masaje mature madurar measure medir meet reunir melt derritir milk ordeñar mince picar mine minar mix mezclar mix mortar amasar moisten humectar / humedecer mold amoldar mop trapear multiply multiplicar nail / stick (in) clavar nail (out) desclavar narrate narrar neglect descuidar negotiate negociar nitrify nitrificar 244 nurse amamantar oil aceitar open abrir operate operar order ordenar order (demand, ask) pedir / encargar orient orientar overfeed sobrealimentar overfill sobrellenar overgraze pastoreo abusivo overgrow sobrecrecer pack empacar paint pintar pair casar paralyze paralizar participate participar paste pegar pasteurize pasteurizar pasture pastar / pastorear patent patentar pay attention poner atención peel pelar percolate infiltrar perforate perforar photograph fotografiar pick cosechar pick (choose) escoger pick up recoger pierce agujerar pile up amontonar pinch pellizcar place poner plan planificar plant plantar / sembrar plant trees plantar pinos / plantar árboles play jugar plough arar plough in enterrar con arado / incorporar plough out arrancar con arado plow arar pluck tirar plug in enchufar plumb plomar polish pulir post (poster) fijar (poster / cartel) pot plantar en maceta pound golpear pour verter / echar pray rezar pre-germinate pregerminar pre-heat precalentar pre-soak remojar preserve conservar / preservar press oprimir / apretar prick pinchar print imprimir process elaborar produce producir project proyectar propagate propagar / multiplicar protect proteger prune cortar / podar pull tirar / jalar pull out arrancar pulverize pulverizar pump bombear punch (hit) golpear punch (hole) agujerar purchase comprar push empujar put poner put on poner 245 rain llover rake restrillar reach alcanzar read leer receive recibir reduce reducir refill rellenar reforest plantar pinos regrow rebrotar release soltar remember recordar remove quitar replace reponer replicate replicar reproduce reproducir research investigar reseed resembrar resist resistir rest descansar return volver / regresar rinse enjuagar ripen madurar roll (wheel) rodar roll (wrap) enrollar root echar raíz rope enlazar rot pudrir rub frotar / sobar run correr run (machine) andar rust oxidar sample probar sand lijar sanitize desinfectar saturate empapar saw serruchar / serrar say decir scald escaldar scar cicatrizar scatter diseminar / distribuir scoop ahuecar / recoger / sacar scorch quemar scrape arrastrar / raspar screw atornillar screw (in) atornillar screw (out) desatornillar season sazonar seed (plant) sembrar seed (remove) quitar las semillas select seleccionar sell vender send enviar / mandar separate separar serve servir set-up (exhibition) instalar settle asentar sew cocer shade sombrear shake agitar sharpen afilar shave rasurar / afeitar shield escudar shine brillar ship enviar shoot disparar shove empujar shovel cavar con pala shower duchar shred desmenuzar shrivel encoger sift cernir sign firmar 246 sign (signal) señalar sink hundir sip sorber / probar sit sentar size medir skid derrapar slam azotar sleep dormir slice rebanar slide correr slip resbalar slow down desacelerar smell oler smooth-out aparejar snip tijeretear soak remojar soak in absorber solder soldar sort ordenar / clasificar sow sembrar space espaciar speak hablar spill derramar spin girar split partir / rajar spoil deteriorar spray rociar spread (on) untar spread (over area) esparcir sprinkle rociar / regar sprout brotar squeeze apretar squeeze (juice) exprimir squeeze (tighten) apretar stab apuñalar stack amontonar / apilar stalk acechar stand estar de pie / ponerse de pie staple engrapar start empezar / arrancar steam cocer al vapor steep (tea) infundir step pisar sterilize esterilizar stew guisar / cocer a fuego lento sting picar stir revolver stitch cocer / suturar stop parar store almacenar strain colar strap atar con correa stratify estratificar stretch estirar study estudiar submerge sumergir subsidize subvencionar subtract restar / substraer suck chupar sun asolear / al sol support apoyar surface alisar survive sobrevivir swallow tragar sweep barrer swell hinchar / inflamar swim nadar swirl remoler swivel girar synthesize sintetizar tailgate seguir muy de cerca take (carry to) llevar take (grab) tomar 247 take off quitar talk hablar tape (noun) cinta adhesiva tape (recording) grabar tape (verb) sujetar con cinta taste saborear tear desgarrar tell decir test probar thaw descongelar / deshelar thin desahijar think pensar throw aventar tie amarrar time medir el tiempo / cronometrar tiptoe caminar de puntillas top despuntar top work reinjertar / sobreinjertar touch tocar transect cortar en transversal translate traducir transpire transpirar transplant transplantar trench zanjar trim recortar trowel paleta / palustre try (effort) intentar try (flavor) probar tune-up afinar turn voltear turn off apagar turn on prender twist torcer / girar type teclear unload descargar unplug desenchufar unscrew desatornillar update poner al día urinate orinar vaccinate vacunar vacuum aspirar vanish desaparecer varnish barnizar vault abovedar ventilate ventilar / airear volatilize volatilizar wait esperar walk caminar wallpapering empapelar want querer warm calentar wash lavar / limpiar waste desperdiciar watch mirar water regar / mojar wax encerar wear poner wear and tear desgastar weave tejer wedge acuñar weed desmalezar weigh pesar welcome dar la bienvenida weld soldar wet mojar whiten blanquear widen ensanchar wilt marchitar win ganar windrow hacer hileras winter invernar wire alambrar 248 work trabajar worth (be worth) valer wrap envolver / cubrir wrinkle arrugar write escribir zigzag poner en zigzag 249 WORKPLACE HAZARDS – PELIGROS OCUPACIONALES CHEMICALS QUÍMICOS AIR CONTAMINANTS CONTAMINANTES AÉREOS abate abate (temefós) acetaldehyde acetaldehído acetic acid ácido acético acetic anhydride anhídrido acético acetone acetona acetonitrile acetonitrilo acetylene acetileno acetylene tetrabromide tetrabromuro de acetileno acrolein acroleína acrylamide acrilamida acrylonitrile acrilonitrilo aldrin aldrina allyl alcohol alcohol alílico allyl chloride cloruro de alilo allyl glycidyl ether (AGE) éter alil glicidílico allyl propyl disulfide disulfuro de alil propilo alpha alumina alúmina alfa aluminum metal dust aluminio, polvo de metal ammonia amoníaco ammonium chloride fumes emanaciones de cloruro amónico ammonium sulfamate sulfato amónico n-amyl acetate acetato de n-amilo sec-amyl acetate acetato de sec-amilo aniline and homologs anilina y homólogos anisidine (o, p-isomers) anisidina (o, p-isómeros) antimony and compounds (as Sb) antimonio y compuestos (como Sb) arsenic inorganic compounds (as As) arsenicos inorgánicos (como As), compuestos arsenic organic compounds (as As) arsenicos orgánicos (como As), compuestos arsine arsine asbestos asbesto asphalt (petroleum) fumes asfalto (petróleo), emanaciones azinphosmethyl metil azinfos barium (soluble compounds) bario (compuestos solubles) barium sulfate sulfato de bario benomyl benomilo benzene benceno benzidine bencidina benzoyl peroxide peróxido de benzoyl benzyl chloride cloruro del bencilo beryllium and beryllium compounds berilio y compuestos de berilio bismuth telluride (Se-doped) telurio de bismuto (contaminado con Se) bismuth telluride (undoped) telurio de bismuto (sin contaminación) boron oxide óxido de boro boron tribromide tribromuro de boro boron trifluoride trifluoruro de boro bromine bromo bromine pentafluoride pentafluoruro de bromo bromoform bromoformo butadiene butadieno butane butano 2-butanone (methyl ethyl ketone) 2-butanona (metil etil cetona) 2-butoxyethanol (butyl cellosolve) 2-butoxietanol (butil “cellosolve”) butyl acetate (n-butyl acetate) acetato de butil (acetato de n-butilo) sec-butyl acetate acetato del butilo-sec tert-butyl acetate acetato de terc-butilo n-butyl alcohol alcohol butílico-n sec-butyl alcohol alcohol sec-butílico tert-butyl alcohol alcohol terc-butílico butyl lactate lactato de butilo butyl mercaptan butanotiol (butil mercaptano) tert-butyl chromate (as Cr03) cromato terc-butílico (como Cr03) n-butyl glycidyl ether (BGE) éter glicidil n-butílico butylamine butil amina p-tert-butyltoluene p-terc-butiltolueno cadmium dust and fume (as Cd) cadmio, polvo y emanaciones (como Cd) 250 calcium arsenate arseniato de cálcico calcium carbonate carbonato de calcio calcium hydroxide hidróxido de calcio calcium oxide óxido de calcio calcium sulfate sulfato de calcio camphor, synthetic alcanfor, sintético caprolactam caprolactama carbaryl (Sevin) carbarilio (”sevin”) carbon black negro de carbón carbon dioxide dióxido de carbono carbon disulfide disulfuro de carbono carbon monoxide monóxido de carbono carbon tetrachloride tetracloruro de carbono cellulose celulosa chlordane clordán chlorinated camphene canfeno clorado chlorinated diphenyl oxide óxido de difenilo clorado chlorine cloro chlorine dioxide dióxido de cloro chlorine trifluoride trifluoruro de cloro chloroacetaldehyde cloroacetaldehido a-chloroacetophenone a-cloroacetofenona chlorobenzene clorobenzeno o-chlorobenzylidene malononitrile o-clorobenzilideno malononitrilo chlorobromomethane bromocloro metano (clorobromometano) chlorodiphenyl (42% chlorine) clorobifenilo (42% cloro) chlorodiphenyl (54% chlorine) clorobifenilo (54% cloro) chloroform (trichloromethane) cloroformo (triclorometano) bis-chloromethyl ether éter sim-diclorometílico chloromethyl methyl ether éter de metilclorometil 1-chloro-1-nitropropane 1-cloro 1-nitropropano chloropicrin cloropicrina beta-chloroprene (2-chloro-1,3-butadiene) 2-cloro-1,3-butadieno (β-cloropreno) 2-chloro-6-(trichloromethyl) pyridine 2-cloro-6-(triclorometil) piridina (nitropirina) chromic acid and chromates (as CrO3) ácido crómico y cromados (como CrO3) chromium (II) compounds (as Cr) cromo (II) compuestos (como Cr) chromium (III) compounds (as Cr) cromo (III) compuestos (como Cr) chromium metal & insoluble salts cromo, metal y sales insolubles clopidol clopidol coal dust polvo de carbón coal tar pitch volatiles partículas policíclicas de hidrocarburos aromáticos cobalt metal, fume & dust cobalto, metal, polvo y emanaciones coke oven emissions coque, gas de horno copper fume cobre, emanaciones corundum (A1203) corundum (A1203) cotton dust algodón, polvos cotton dust (raw) algodón, polvos (crudo) crag herbicide (Sesone) crag, herbicida (sesona) cresol (all isomers) cresol (todos los isómeros) crotonaldehyde crotonaldehído cumene cumeno cyanide (as CN) cianuro (como Cn) cyanogen cianógeno cyclohexane ciclohexano cyclohexanol ciclohexanol cyclohexanone ciclohexanona cyclopentadiene ciclopentadieno 2,4-D (2,4-Dichlorophenoxyacetic acid) 2,4-D (ácido 2,4 dicloro fenoxiacético) DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichlorethane) DDT (diclorodifeniltricloroetano) decaborane decaborano demeton (Systox) demetón (systox) diacetone alcohol (4-hydroxy-4-methyl-2-pentanone) alcohol diacetona (4-hidroxi-4-metil-2-pentanona) diazinon diazinón diazomethane diazometano diborane diborano 1,2-dibromo-3-chloropropane (DBCP) 1,2-dibromo-3-cloropropano dibutyl phosphate fosfato de dibutilo dibutyl phthalate ftalato de dibutilo 2-n-dibutylaminoethanol 2-n-dibutilaminoetanol dichloroacetylene dicloroacetileno o-dichlorobenzene o-diclorobenceno p-dichlorobenzene p-diclorobenceno 3,3-dichlorobenzidine 3,3-diclorobenzidina 251 dichlorodifluoromethane diclorodifluometano 1,3-dichloro-5, 5-dimethylhydantoin 1,3-dicloro-5,5 dimetilhidantoina 1,1-dichloroethane 1,1-dichloroetano 1,2-dichlorethylene 1,2-dicloretileno dichloroethyl ether éter sim-dicloroetílico dichloromethane diclorometano dichloromonofluoromethane diclorofluorometano 1,1-dichloro-1-nitroethane 1,1-dicloro-1-nitroetano dichlorotetrafluoroethane diclorotetrafluoroetano Dichlorvos (DDVP) Diclorvos dicyclohexylmethane 4,4'-diisocyanate metilen bis (4 ciclohexilisocianato) dicyclopentadienyl iron diciclopentadienil hierro dieldrin dieldrina diethylamine dietilamina 2-diethylaminoethanol dietilaminoetanol diethylene triamine dietilentriamina difluorodibromomethane difluorodibromometano diglycidyl ether (DGE) éter diglicidilico diisobutyl ketone diisobutilcetona diisopropylamine diisopropilamina dimethyl acetamide N,N-dimetilacetamida dimethyl sulfate sulfato de dimetilo dimethylamine dimetilamina dimethylaniline (N,N-dimethylaniline) N,N-dimetilanilina dimethylbenzene dimetilbenceno dimethylformamide N,N dimetilformamida 1,1-dimethylhydrazine 1,1-dimethylhydrazina dimethylphthalate ftalato de dimetilo dinitro-o-cresol dinitro-o-cresol dinitrobenzene (all isomers) dinitrobenzeno (todos los isómeros) dinitrotoluene dinitrotolueno diphenyl (biphenyl) difenilo (bifenilo) diphenylamine difenilamina diquat diquat emery esmeril endosulfan endosulfan endrin endrina epichlorhydrin epiclorhidrina ethane etano ethanolamine etanolamina 2-ethoxyethanol 2-etoxietanol 2-ethoxyethylacetate acetato de 2-etoxietilo ethyl acetate acetato de etilo ethyl acrylate acrilato de etilo ethyl alcohol alcohol etílico ethyl amyl ketone etil amil cetona ethyl benzene etilbenceno ethyl bromide bromuro de etilo ethyl butyl ketone etil butil ketona ethyl chloride cloruro de etilo ethyl ether éter etílico ethyl formate formiato de etilo ethyl mercaptan etilmercaptano ethyl silicate silicato de etilo ethylamine etilamina ethylene etileno ethylene chlorohydrin clorhidrina etilénica ethylene dibromide dibromuro de etileno ethylene dichloride dicloruro de etileno ethylene glycol dinitrate dinitrato de etilenglicol ethylene glycol, particulate etilenglicol, particula ethylene glycol, vapor glicol etilénico, vapor ethylene oxide óxido de etileno ethylenediamine etilendiamina ethylenenimine etilenimida N-ethylmorpholine N-etilmorfolina ferbam ferbam ferrovanadium dust ferrovanadio, polvo fluorides (as F) fluoruros (como el F) fluorine flúor fluorotrichloromethane fluotriclorometano formaldehyde formaldehído 252 formic acid ácido fórmico furfural furfural furfuryl alcohol alcohol furfurílico gasoline gasolina germanium tetrahydride tetrahidruro de germanio glass, fibrous or dust vidrio, fibroso o polvo glycerin (mist) glicerina (llovizna) glycidol glicidol grain dust (oat, wheat, barley) polvo de grano (avena, trigo, cebada) graphite natural, respirable grafito natural, respirable graphite (synthetic) grafito (sintético) gypsum yeso hafnium hafnio heptachlor heptacloro heptane (n-heptane) n-heptano hexachlorocyclopentadiene hexaclorciclopentadieno hexachloroethane hexacloretano hexachloronaphthalene hexaclornaftaleno hexafluoracetone hexafluoracetona hexamethylene diisocyanate diisocianato de hexametileno hexane (n-hexane) n-hexano 2-hexanone 2-hexanona hexone (methyl isobutyl ketone) hexona sec-hexyl acetate acetato del sec-hexilo hydrazine hidrazina hydrogen hidrógeno hydrogen bromide bromuro de hidrógeno hydrogen chloride cloruro de hidrógeno hydrogen cyanide cianuro de hidrógeno hydrogen fluoride (as F) fluoruro de hidrógeno (como F) hydrogen peroxide peróxido de hidrógeno hydrogen selenide (as Se) seleniuro de hidrógeno (como Se) hydrogen sulfide sulfuro de hidrógeno hydroquinone hidroquinona indene indeno indium and compounds (as In) indio y compuestos (como In) iodine yodo iron oxide fume óxido de hierro, emanaciones iron pentacarbonyl hierro pentacarbonilo iron salts, soluble, (as Fe) hierro, sales de, solubles (como Fe) isoamyl acetate acetato de isoamilo isoamyl alcohol (primary and secondary) alcohol isoamílico (primario y secundario) isobutyl acetate acetato de isobutilo isobutyl alcohol alcohol isobutílico isophorone isoforona isophorone diisocyanate diisocianato de isoforona isopropyl acetate acetato de isopropilo isopropyl alcohol alcohol isopropílico isopropyl ether éter isopropílico isopropyl glycidyl ether (IGE) isopropil glicidil éter isopropylamine isopropylamina kaolin caolín ketene cetena L.P.G. (liquified petroleum gas) L.P.G. (gas de petróleo licuado) lead arsenate arseniato de plomo lead, inorganic (as Pb) plomo, inorgánico (como Pb) limestone caliza lindane lindano lithium hydride hidruro de litio magnesite magnesita magnesium oxide fume óxido magnésico, emanaciones malathion malatión maleic anhydride anhídrido maléico manganese compounds (as Mn) manganeso (como Mn), compuestos manganese fume (as Mn) manganeso (como Mn), emanaciones marble mármol mercury (aryl, inorganic, organo, and vapor) (as Hg) mercurio (arilo, inorgánico, orgánico, y vapor) (como Hg) mesityl oxide óxido de mesitilo 253 methane metano methoxychlor metoxicloro methyl acetate acetato de metilo methyl acetylene-propadiene mixture (MAPP) metilacetileno-propadieno, mezcla methyl acetylene (propyne) acetileno de metilo methyl acrylate acrilato de metilo methyl alcohol (methanol) alcohol metílico (metanol) methyl bromide bromuro de metilo methyl chloride cloruro de metilo methyl chloroform (1,1,1-trichloroethane) metilcloroformo methyl chloromethyl ether metilclorometil éter methyl 2-cyanoacrylate 2-cianoacrilato de metilo methyl demeton metil demetona methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) metil étil cetona (MEK) methyl formate formiato de metilo methyl iodide yoduro de metilo methyl isoamyl ketone metil isoamil cetona methyl isobutyl carbinol metilisobutilicarbinol methyl isocyanate isocianato de metilo methyl mercaptan metilmercaptano methyl methacrylate metacrilato de metilo methyl parathion metilparationa methylal (dimethoxymethane) dimetoximetano methylamine metilamina methylcyclohexane metilciclohexano methylcyclohexanol meticiclohexanol methylene bisphenyl isocyanate (MDI) metilenbis (fenilisocianato) methylene chloride cloruro de metileno methylenedianiline (MDA) metilendianilina mineral wool fiber fibra de lana mineral molybdenum (soluble and insoluble compounds) molibdeno (compuestos solubles e insolubles) morpholine morfolina naphtha (coal tar) disolvente de hule (nafta) naphthalene naftaleno naphthalene diisocyanate (NDI) diisocianato de naftaleno alpha naphthylamine α-naftilamina beta-naphthylamine β-naftilamina nickel carbonyl (as Ni) níquel carbonilo (como Ni) nickel, metal and insoluble compounds, (as Ni) níquel, metal y compuestos insolubles, (como Ni) nickel, soluble compounds, (as Ni) níquel, compuestos solubles, (como Ni) nicotine nicotina nitric acid ácido nítrico nitric oxide óxido nítrico p-nitroaniline p-nitroanilina nitrobenzene nitrobenceno nitroethane nitroetano nitrogen dioxide dióxido de nitrógeno nitrogen trifluoride trifluoruro de nitrógeno nitroglycerin nitroglicerina nitromethane nitrometano 1-nitropropane 1-nitropropano 2-nitropropane 2-nitropropano N-nitrosodimethylamine N-nitrosodimetilamina nitrotoluene (all isomers) nitrotolueno (todos los isómeros) nitrous oxide óxido nitroso octachloronaphthalene octachloro naftaleno octane octano osmium tetroxide (as Os) tetróxido de osmio (como Os) oxalic acid ácido oxálico ozone ozono paraquat respirable dust paraquat, polvo respirable parathion parationa pentaborane pentaborano pentachloronaphthalene pentacloronaftaleno pentachlorophenol pentaclorofenol pentaerythritol pentaeritrita pentane pentano 2-pentanone 2-pentanona perchloroethylene percloroetileno perchloromethyl mercaptan perclorometilmercaptano perchloryl fluoride fluoruro de perclorilo 254 perlite perlita petroleum distillates (rubber solvent) destilados de petróleo (disolvente de hule) phenol fenol phenothiazine fenotiazina phenyl ether - diphenyl mixture (vapor) éter fenílico, mezcla de difenilo (vapor) phenyl ether (vapor) éter fenílico (vapor) phenyl glycidyl ether (PGE) fenil glicidil éter p-phenylene diamine p-fenilendiamina phenylhydrazine fenilhidrazina phenylphosphine fenilfosfina phosdrin (mevinphos) mevinfós phosgene (carbonyl chloride) fosgeno phosphine fosfamina phosphoric acid ácido fosfórico phosphorus pentachloride pentacloruro de fósforo phosphorus pentasulfide pentasulfuro de fósforo phosphorus trichloride tricloruro de fósforo phosphorus (yellow) fósforo (amarillo) phthalic anhydride anhídrido ftálico picloram picloram picric acid ácido pícrico pindone (2-pivalyl-1,3-indandione) pindona plaster of Paris yeso de París platinum, soluble salts as (Pt) platino, sales solubles (como Pt) Portland cement cemento Portland propane propano propargyl alcohol alcohol propargílico beta-propiolactone β-propiolactona n-propyl acetate acetato de n-propilo n-propyl nitrate nitrato de n-propilo propylene dichloride dicloruro de propileno propylene glycol monomethyl ether propilenglicol monometil éter propylene imine propilenimina propylene oxide óxido de propileno pyrethrum pelitre pyridine piridina quinone quinona RDX (Cyclonite) ciclonita rhodium, metal fume and dusts, as Rh soluble salts rodio, emanaciones metal y polvos, como sales solubles de Rh rotenone rotenona selenium compounds (as Se) selenio, compuestos (como Se) silica sílice silicon silicio silicon carbide carburo de silicio silver, metal and soluble compounds (as Ag) plata, metal y compuestos solubles (como Ag) sodium fluoroacetate fluoacetato sódico sodium hydroxide hidróxido sódico starch almidón stibine estibina Stoddard solvent disolvente de Stoddard strychnine estricnina styrene estireno subtilisins (proteolytic enzymes) (as 100% pure crystalline enzyme) subtilicinas (enzimas proteolíticas) (como enzima cristalina 100% puras) sulfur dioxide dióxido de azufre sulfur hexafluoride hexafluoruro de azufre sulfur monochloride monocloruro de azufre sulfur pentafluoride pentafluoruro de azufre sulfur tetrafluoride tetrafluoruro de sulfuro sulfuric acid ácido sulfúrico sulfuryl fluoride fluoruro de sulfurilo TEDP (Sulfotepp) sulfotepp tellurium and compounds (as Te) telurio y compuestos (como Te) temephos temefós TEPP (tetraethyl pyrophosphate) pirofosfato de tetraetilo 1, 1, 1, 2-tetrachloro-2 2-difluoroethane 1, 1, 1, 2-tetracloro-2,2-difluoroetano 1, 1, 2, 2-tetrachloro-1 2-difluoroethane 1, 1, 2, 2-tetracloro-1,2-difluoroetano 1, 1, 2, 2-tetrachloroethane 1, 1, 2, 2-tetracloroetano tetrachloroethylene tetracloroetileno tetrachloronaphthalene tetracloronaftaleno tetraethyl lead (as Pb) tetraetilo de plomo (como Pb) 255 tetrahydrofuran tetrahidrofurano tetramethyl lead (as Pb) tetrametilo de plomo (como Pb) tetramethyl succinonitrile tetrametil succino nitrilo tetranitromethane tetranitrometano thallium, soluble compounds (as T) talio, compuestos solubles (como T) 4,4'-thiobis (6-tert,butyl-m-cresol) 4,4'-tiobis (6-ter,butil-m-cresol) thiram thiram tin, inorganic compounds except oxides (as Sn) estaño, compuestos inorgánicos excepto óxidos (como Sn) tin (organic compounds) estaño (compuestos orgánicos) tin oxide óxido de estaño titanium dioxide dióxido del titanio toluene (toluol) tolueno o-toluidine o-toluidina toxaphene toxafeno tributyl phosphate fosfato de tributilo 1, 1, 2-trichloro 1, 2, 2-trifluoroethane 1, 1, 2-tricloro 1, 2, 2-trifluoroetano 1, 1, 2-trichloroethane 1, 1, 2-tricloroetano trichloroethylene tricloretileno trichloromethane triclorometano trichloronaphthalene tricloronaftaleno 1, 2, 3-trichloropropane 1, 2, 3-tricloropropano triethylamine trietilamina trifluorobromomethane trifluorobromometano trimethyl benzene trimetilbenceno 2, 4, 6-trinitrophenol 2, 4, 6-trinitrofenol triphenyl phosphate trifenilfosfato tungsten & compounds, (as W) soluble and insoluble tungsteno y compuestos, (como W) solubles e insolubles turpentine trementina uranium, (as U) soluble and insoluble compounds uranio, (como U) compuestos solubles e insolubles vanadium respirable dust (as V205) fume (as V205) vanadio polvos respirable (como V205), emanaciones (como V205) vegetable oil mist aceite vegetal, rocio vinyl acetate acetato de vinilo vinyl bromide bromuro de vinilo vinyl chloride cloruro de vinilo vinyl cyanide cianuro de vinilo vinyl toluene viniltolueno warfarin warfarin wood dust (non-allergenic) madera, polvo (no-alergeno) 256 xylene (o-, m-, p-isomers) xileno (o-,m-,p-isómeros) xylidine xilidina yttrium itrio zinc chloride fume cloruro de zinc, emanaciones zinc oxide óxido de zinc zinc oxide fume óxido de zinc, emanaciones zinc sterate estearato de zinc zirconium compounds (as Zr) zirconio y compuestos (como Zr) HERBICIDES HERBICIDAS diquat diquat nitrocresolics nitorocresólicos nitrophenolic nitrofenólicos paraquat paraquat pentachlorophenol pentaclorofenol INSECTICIDES PLAGUICIDAS acaracides and repellents acaricidad y repelentes n-methyl carbamates n-metil carbámicos of biological origin de origen biológico organophosphates ornganofosofrados solid organochlorines organoclorados sólidos ORGANOPHOSPHATE INSECTICIDES PLAGUICIDAS ORGANOFOSFORADOS HIGHLY TOXIC ALTAMENTE TÓXICOS azinphos-methyl (Guthion, Gusathion) azinfosmetílico (Guthion, Gusathion) bomyl (Swat) bomil (Swat) carbophenothion (Trithion) carbofenotión (Trithion) chlorfenvinphos (Apachlor, Birlane) clorfenvinfós (Apachlor, Birlane) chlormephos (Dotan) clormefós (Dotan) chlorthiophos (Celathion) clortiofós (Celathion) coumaphos (Co-Ral, Asuntol) cumafós (Co-Ral, Asuntol) cyanofenphos (Surecide) cianofenfós (Surecide) demeton (Systox) demetón (Systox) dialifor (Torak) dialifor (Torak) dicrotophos (Bidrin) dicrotofós (Bidrin) dimefox (Hanane, Pestox XIV) dimefox (Hanane, Pestox XIV) dioxathion (Delnav) dioxatión (Delnav) disulfoton (Disyston) disulfotón (Disyston) endothion endotión EPN EPN ethyl parathion (E605, Parathion, Thiophos) etilparatión (E605, Parathion, Thiophos) famphur (Famfos, Bo-Ana, Bash) famfur (Famfos, Bo-Ana, Bash) fenamiphos (Nemacur) fenamifós (Nemacur) fenophosphon (trichloronate, Agritox) fenofosfón (trichloronate, Agritox) fensulfothion (Dasanit) fensulfotión (Dasanit) fonofos (Dyfonate, N-2790) fonofós (Dyfonate, N-2790) fosthietan (Nem-A-Tak) fostietán (Nem-A-Tak) isofenphos (Amaze, Oftanol) isofenfós (Amaze, Oftanol) mephosfolan (Cytrolane) mefosfolán (Cytrolane) methamidophos (Monitor) metamidofós (Monitor) methidathion (Supracide, Ultracide) metidatión (Supracide, Ultracide) methyl parathion (E601, Penncap-M) paratíon metílico (E601, Penncap-M) mevinphos (Phosdrin, Duraphos) mevinfós (Phosdrin, Duraphos) mipafox (Isopestox, Pestox XV) mipafox (Isopestox, Pestox XV) monocrotophos (Azodrin) monocrotofós (Azodrin) phorate (Thimet, Rempart, AASTAR) forato (Thimet, Rempart, AASTAR) phosfolan (Cyolane, Cylan) fosfolán (Cyolane, Cylan) phosphamidon (Dimecron) fosfamidón (Dimecron) prothoate (Fac) protoato (Fac) schradan (OMPA) schradán (OMPA) sulfotep (Thiotepp, Bladafum, Dithione) sulfotep (Thiotepp, Bladafum, Dithione) terbufos (Counter, Contraven) terbufós (Counter, Contraven) tetraethyl pryrophosphate (TEPP) pirofosfato de tetraetilo (TEPP) 257 MODERATELY TOXIC MODERADAMENTE TÓXICOS acephate (Orthene) acefato (Orthene) bensulide (Betasan, Prefar) bensulide (Betasan, Prefar) bromophos (Nexion) bromofós (Nexion) bromophos-ethyl (Nexagan) bromofós etil (Nexagan) chlorphoxim (Bathion-C) clorfoxim (Bathion-C) chlorpyrifos (Dursban, Lorsban, Brodan) clorpirifós (Dursban, Lorsban, Brodan) crotoxyphos (Ciodrin, Cypona) crotoxifós (Ciodrin, Cypona) crufomate (Ruelene) crufomato (Ruelene) cyanophos (Cyanox) cianofós (Cyanox) cythioate (Proban, Cyflee) citoato (Proban, Cyflee) DEF (DeGreen, E-Z-Off D) DEF (DeGreen, E-Z-Off D) demeton-S-methyl (Duratox, Metasystox (i)) metil-S-demetón (Duratox, Metasystox (i)) diazinon (Spectracide) diazinón (Spectracide) dichlofenthion (VC-13 Nemacide) diclofentión (VC-13 Nemacide) dichlorvos (DDVP, Vapona) diclorvós (DDVP, Vapona) dimethoate (Cygon, DeFend) dimetoato (Cygon, DeFend) edifenphos edifenfós EPBP (S-Seven) EPBP (S-Seven) ethion (Ethanox) etión (Ethanox) ethoprop (Mocap) etoprop (Mocap) etrimfos (Ekamet) etrimfós (Ekamet) fenitrothion (Accothion, Agrothion, Sumithion) fenitrotión (Accothion, Agrothion, Sumithion) fenthion (mercaptophos, Entex, Baytex, Tiguvon) fentión (mercaptophos, Entex, Baytex, Tiguvon) formothion (Anthio) formotión (Anthio) heptenophos (Hostaquick) heptenofós (Hostaquick) IBP (Kitazin) IBP (Kitazin) iodofenphos (Nuvanol-N) iodofenfós (Nuvanol-N) isoxathion (E-48, Karphos) isoxatión (E-48, Karphos) leptophos (Phosvel) leptofós (Phosvel) malathion (Cythion) malatión (Cythion) merphos (Folex, Easy off-D) merfós (Folex, Easy off-D) methyl trithion metiltritión naled (Dibrom) naled (Dibrom) oxydemeton-methyl (Metasystox-R) oxidemetón-metil (Metasystox-R) oxydenprofos (Metasystox-S) oxidenprofós (Metasystox-S) phencapton (G 28029) fencaptón (G 28029) phenthoate (dimephenthoate, Phenthoate) fentoato (dimephenthoate, Phenthoate) phosalone (Zolone) fosalona (Zolone) phosmet (Imidan, Prolate) fosmet (Imidan, Prolate) phoxim (Baythion) foxim (Baythion) pirimiphos-ethyl (Primicid) pirimifós-etil (Primicid) pirimiphos-methyl (Actellic) pirimifós-metil (Actellic) profenofos (Curacron) profenofós (Curacron) propetamphos (Safrotin) propetanfós (Safrotin) propyl thiopyrophosphate (Aspon) propiltiopirofosfato (Aspon) pyrazophos (Afugan, curamil) pirazofós (Afugan, curamil) pyridaphenthion (Ofunack) piridafentión (Ofunack) quinalphos (Bayrusil) quinalfós (Bayrusil) ronnel (fenchlorphos, Korlan) ronnel (fenchlorphos, Korlan) sulprofos (Bolstar, Helothion) sulprofós (Bolstar, Helothion) temephos (Abate, Abathion) temefós (Abate, Abathion) tetrachlorvinphos (Gardona, Appex, Stirofos) tetraclorvinfós (Gardona, Appex, Stirofos) thiometon (Ekatin) tiometón (Ekatin) triazophos (Hostathion) triazofós (Hostathion) trichlorfon (Dylox, Dpterex, Proxol, Neguvon) triclorfón (Dylox, Dpterex, Proxol, Neguvon) 258 METALS METALES aluminum aluminio (m.) barium bario (m.) copper cobre (m.) gold oro (m.) iron hierro (m.) lead plomo (m.) lithium litio (m.) mercury mercurio (m.) platinum platino (m.) potassium potasio (m.) silver plata (f.) sodium sodio (m.) stainless steel acero (m.) inoxidable steel acero (m.) strontium estroncio (m.) tin estaño (m.) zinc cinc (m.)
